Patient: I woke up this morning feeling the whole room is spinning when i was sitting down. I went to the bathroom walking unsteadily, as i tried to focus i feel nauseous. I try to vomit but it wont come out.. After taking panadol and sleep for few hours, i still feel the same.. By the way, if i lay down or sit down, my head do not spin, only when i want to move around then i feel the whole world is spinning.. And it is normal stomach discomfort at the same time? Earlier after i relieved myself, the spinning lessen so i am not sure whether its connected or coincidences.. Thank you doc!
Doctor: Hi, Thank you for posting your query. The most likely cause for your symptoms is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), a type of peripheral vertigo. In this condition, the most common symptom is dizziness or giddiness, which is made worse with movements. Accompanying nausea and vomiting are common. The condition is due to problem in the ear, and improves in a few days on own. Betahistine tablets would help relieve your symptoms. Doing vestibular rehabilitation or adaptation exercises would prevent the recurrence of these symptoms. An ENT evaluation would also help. I hope it helps. Best wishes, Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What is the relationship between very low Mg2+ levels, PTH levels, and Ca2+ levels?
Fact Answer: Very low Mg2+ levels correspond to low PTH levels which in turn results in low Ca2+ levels.

Clinical Question: A 23-year-old pregnant woman at 22 weeks gestation presents with burning upon urination. She states it started 1 day ago and has been worsening despite drinking more water and taking cranberry extract. She otherwise feels well and is followed by a doctor for her pregnancy. Her temperature is 97.7°F (36.5°C), blood pressure is 122/77 mmHg, pulse is 80/min, respirations are 19/min, and oxygen saturation is 98% on room air. Physical exam is notable for an absence of costovertebral angle tenderness and a gravid uterus. Which of the following is the best treatment for this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Nitrofurantoin

Patient: My baby has been pooing 5-6 times a day for a week. In the last few days it has increased to 7 and they are very watery with green stringy bits in them. He does not seem unwell i.e no temperature and still eating. He now has a very bad nappy rash from the pooing ...help!
Doctor: Hi... Thank you for consulting in Chat Doctor. It seems your kid is having viral diarrhea. Once it starts it will take 5-7 days to completely get better. Unless the kids having low urine output or very dull or excessively sleepy or blood in motion or green bilious vomiting...you need not worry. There is no need to use antibiotics unless there is blood in the motion. Antibiotics might worsen if unnecessarily used causing antibiotic associated diarrhea. I suggest you use zinc supplements (Z&D Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What leads to genitourinary syndrome of menopause (atrophic vaginitis)?
Fact Answer: Low estradiol production leads to genitourinary syndrome of menopause (atrophic vaginitis).

Clinical Question: A 3-month-old baby died suddenly at night while asleep. His mother noticed that he had died only after she awoke in the morning. No cause of death was determined based on the autopsy. Which of the following precautions could have prevented the death of the baby?
Correct Diagnosis: Placing the infant in a supine position on a firm mattress while sleeping

Patient: Hello, My husband is taking Oxycodone due to a broken leg/surgery. He has been taking this pain medication for one month. We are trying to conceive our second baby. Will this medication afect the fetus? Or the health of the baby? Or can it bring birth defects? Thank you.
Doctor: Hello, and I hope I can help you today.First, there is no medication that can be taken by the father that has any way to get into your system or a baby if you conceive.  Medications can only affect a fetus if you take it while pregnant. The only issue is that certain medications may decrease a men sperm count and affect fertility, however pain medications like Oxycodone do not have this effect. So there is no reason for you to worry about conceiving while taking this medication.  The best way you can prepare for a healthy pregnancy is to follow a well-balanced diet, limit alcohol consumption and avoid cigarette smoke, and take a daily prenatal vitamin or folic acid, as folic acid supplements in early pregnancy helps to prevent certain types of birth defects. I hope this answers your question and best wishes for your upcoming pregnancy,

Fact Query: What does low REM sleep latency and experiencing hallucinations/sleep paralysis suggest?
Fact Answer: Low REM sleep latency and experiencing hallucinations/sleep paralysis suggests narcolepsy.

Clinical Question: A mother brings her 3-week-old infant to the pediatrician's office because she is concerned about his feeding habits. He was born without complications and has not had any medical problems up until this time. However, for the past 4 days, he has been fussy, is regurgitating all of his feeds, and his vomit is yellow in color. On physical exam, the child's abdomen is minimally distended but no other abnormalities are appreciated. Which of the following embryologic errors could account for this presentation?
Correct Diagnosis: Abnormal migration of ventral pancreatic bud

Patient: lump under left nipple and stomach pain (male) Hi,I have recently noticed a few weeks ago a lump under my nipple, it hurts to touch and is about the size of a quarter. Also I have bern experiencing stomach pains that prevent me from eating. I immediatly feel full and have extreme pain. Please help
Doctor: HI. You have two different problems. The lump under the nipple should be removed, biopsied. This will help you to get rid of the disease, and you get a diagnosis. Second problem looks a bit serious one

Fact Query: What are some possible causes of low PTH and high calcium levels?
Fact Answer: PTH-independent hypercalcemia, which can be caused by cancer, granulomatous disease, or vitamin D intoxication.

Clinical Question: A pulmonary autopsy specimen from a 58-year-old woman who died of acute hypoxic respiratory failure was examined. She had recently undergone surgery for a fractured femur 3 months ago. Initial hospital course was uncomplicated, and she was discharged to a rehab facility in good health. Shortly after discharge home from rehab, she developed sudden shortness of breath and had cardiac arrest. Resuscitation was unsuccessful. On histological examination of lung tissue, fibrous connective tissue around the lumen of the pulmonary artery is observed. Which of the following is the most likely pathogenesis for the present findings?
Correct Diagnosis: Thromboembolism

Patient: I have a 5 month old baby who is very congested with a terrible cough. Its rattly/raspy and croupy sounding cough. She started choking on her coughs and the mucous that has come up. She also has a fever and runny nose. Should i take her to urgent care?
Doctor: Thank you for using Chat Doctor. I would suggest that you see your doctor. Your baby maybe having bronchiolitis which is a lung infection common to your kids age. It is commonly caused by a virus. Albuterol via nebulization should be utilized in order to alleviate the wheezing and also help with the congestion. A decongestant can also be used for the colds. Also, it would also advise doing a chest X-ray in order to rule out other diseases (ex. pneumonia)sincerely, Mark RosarioGeneral pediatrics/Pediatric Pulmonology

Fact Query: How does the level of anti-müllerian hormone relate to ovarian reserve?
Fact Answer: The level of anti-müllerian hormone is directly related to ovarian reserve - a lower level indicates a lower ovarian reserve.

Clinical Question: A 20-year-old woman presents with menorrhagia for the past several years. She says that her menses “have always been heavy”, and she has experienced easy bruising for as long as she can remember. Family history is significant for her mother, who had similar problems with bruising easily. The patient's vital signs include: heart rate 98/min, respiratory rate 14/min, temperature 36.1°C (96.9°F), and blood pressure 110/87 mm Hg. Physical examination is unremarkable. Laboratory tests show the following: platelet count 200,000/mm3, PT 12 seconds, and PTT 43 seconds. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient’s symptoms?
Correct Diagnosis: Von Willebrand disease

Patient: I am F 38 in good shape work out (do triathlons) regular but have had back pain from different reasons throughout my life now I every so often wake up with severe lower back, hip pain for no reason. today the pain is almost taking my breathe away when i move. It is a dull pain when i am just lying down but the moment I make any sort of movement I have sharp and sometimes shooting pain down my legs.
Doctor: Hi, From history it seems that you might be having degenerative changes in your lower back spines giving pinched nerve pressure. There might be having osteomalacia or osteoporosis as well. Go for x-ray lumbosacral region for osteoarthritis. Physiotherapy like back extension exercises will be much helpful. Take B1, B6, B!2 shots or medicine. Take calcium, vitamin A and D supplements. Ok and take care.

Fact Query: What does low Mobility and bulging of TM suggest?
Fact Answer: Low Mobility and bulging of TM is suggestive of Acute otitis media.

Clinical Question: A 40-year-old zookeeper presents to the emergency department complaining of severe abdominal pain that radiates to her back, and nausea. The pain started 2 days ago and slowly increased until she could not tolerate it any longer. Past medical history is significant for hypertension and hypothyroidism. Additionally, she reports that she was recently stung by one of the zoo’s smaller scorpions, but did not seek medical treatment. She takes aspirin, levothyroxine, oral contraceptive pills, and a multivitamin daily. Family history is noncontributory. Today, her blood pressure is 108/58 mm Hg, heart rate is 99/min, respiratory rate is 21/min, and temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F). On physical exam, she is a well-developed, obese female that looks unwell. Her heart has a regular rate and rhythm. Radial pulses are weak but symmetric. Her lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. Her lateral left ankle is swollen, erythematous, and painful to palpate. An abdominal CT is consistent with acute pancreatitis. Which of the following is the most likely etiology for this patient’s disease?
Correct Diagnosis: Scorpion sting

Patient: sir, MY uncle has ILD-Interstitial Lung disease.from my research over google i found that the cause is important to be known. the cause wat i feel is due to breakage of acid bottle in bathroom which caused lot of smoke and that time he wasnot able to be normal for 15-20 minutes. then he was normal .may be that would have been the reason for this ILD. Please suggest wat we should do
Doctor: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. OLD (interstitial lung disease) can not be caused by single exposure of any chemical. Chronic exposure (for years) of chemicals can cause OLD. It is not possible to find out cause for each and every OLD patient. Some patients can develop OLD just because of aging (old age). So your uncle is not having OLD due to breakage of acid bottle. He might be having age related OLD. Better to start Perfinodone and N acetyl cysteine (NAC) for OLD rather than searching for cause. Hope I have solved your query. I will be happy to help you further. Wishing good health to your uncle. Thanks.

Fact Query: What are the possible causes of low glucose and high C-peptide levels?
Fact Answer: Low glucose and high C-peptide levels can be caused by an insulinoma or the use of sulfonylurea drugs.

Clinical Question: A 25-year-old primigravida presents to her physician for a routine prenatal visit. She is at 34 weeks gestation, as confirmed by an ultrasound examination. She has no complaints, but notes that the new shoes she bought 2 weeks ago do not fit anymore. The course of her pregnancy has been uneventful and she has been compliant with the recommended prenatal care. Her medical history is unremarkable. She has a 15-pound weight gain since the last visit 3 weeks ago. Her vital signs are as follows: blood pressure, 148/90 mm Hg; heart rate, 88/min; respiratory rate, 16/min; and temperature, 36.6℃ (97.9℉). The blood pressure on repeat assessment 4 hours later is 151/90 mm Hg. The fetal heart rate is 151/min. The physical examination is significant for 2+ pitting edema of the lower extremity. Which of the following tests o should confirm the probable condition of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: 24-hour urine protein

Patient: my husband was working on a project in the house and all of a sudden a bump about the size of a half dollar appeard on his left leg inside below the knee. He is 69 years old and had triple by pass surgery 7 years ago. It stung when it first happened. Doesn t hurt now. He is seated with his leg ellevated. Is this an emergency?
Doctor: Hello. It could be a blood collection due to minor injury or a vein rupture which is also common at this age. It is not an emergency, but you should apply compression bandage and warm compresses if six hours have past. Furthermore, it should get relieved over the next few days but if it continues to increase or persist then you should see a Doctor who can examine the patient. Take care.  Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What can cause low Glucose and high C-peptide levels?
Fact Answer: Insulinoma or sulfonylurea drugs can cause low Glucose and high C-peptide levels.

Clinical Question: A 3900-g (8.6-lb) male infant is delivered at 39 weeks' gestation via spontaneous vaginal delivery. Pregnancy and delivery were uncomplicated but a prenatal ultrasound at 20 weeks showed a defect in the pleuroperitoneal membrane. Further evaluation of this patient is most likely to show which of the following findings?
Correct Diagnosis: Gastric fundus in the thorax

Patient: hi my nine year old son had a cough and flu symptons three months ago and the chesty sounding cough and green phlegm still remains. it did seem to get better but never totally went and has now picked up again...he has only ever had antibiotics once in his live which suggests he his generally fitand well and active...never short of breath or weezy...so why would this be....
Doctor: Hi, If the symptoms persist that long this suggests the presence of an allergic element. To treat that kind of allergy you can give him an over the counter antihistamines once daily before going to bed. A cough suppressant as dextromethorphan and an expectorant as Murine will help reduce the cough. Make sure he Chat Doctor.  If the green phlegm persists he might require an antibiotic. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Fact Query: What is the relationship between low Ejection fraction and dysfunction?
Fact Answer: Low Ejection fraction is commonly associated with systolic dysfunction.

Clinical Question: A 62-year-old woman presents for a regular check-up. She complains of lightheadedness and palpitations which occur episodically. Past medical history is significant for a myocardial infarction 6 months ago and NYHA class II chronic heart failure. She also was diagnosed with grade I arterial hypertension 4 years ago. Current medications are aspirin 81 mg, atorvastatin 10 mg, enalapril 10 mg, and metoprolol 200 mg daily. Her vital signs are a blood pressure of 135/90 mm Hg, a heart rate of 125/min, a respiratory rate of 14/min, and a temperature of 36.5°C (97.7°F). Cardiopulmonary examination is significant for irregular heart rhythm and decreased S1 intensity. ECG is obtained and is shown in the picture (see image). Echocardiography shows a left ventricular ejection fraction of 39%. Which of the following drugs is the best choice for rate control in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Digoxin

Patient: gyno problemsfor the past few months, I have been having issues with my vagina. there always seems to be something wrong with me. its either an infection or a yeast infection from the medication used to treat the previous infection or a herpes outbreak as a result of a yeast infection. most recently, I had a uti. I was treated for that and everything seemed fine, until after I finished the medication. it still hurt when I had sex and still is uncomfortable to pee. I dont know whats going on and this has been going on for months.
Doctor: Dear Friend. Welcome to Chat Doctor. I am Chat Doctor. I understand your concern. Recurring yeast / final infection occur due to

Fact Query: What condition is associated with low DLCO?
Fact Answer: Emphysema is associated with low DLCO.

Clinical Question: A 35-year-old male presents to his primary care physician with complaints of seasonal allergies. He has been using intranasal vasoconstrictors several times per day for several weeks. What is a likely sequela of the chronic use of topical nasal decongestants?
Correct Diagnosis: Persistent congestion

Patient: I have found that I have an allergy to leotensin. They have taken me off of everything....I found in the information that one side effect if the red skin lensions with a purple center. I was looking to see if there was anything I could do to help the spots go away. I am a dental hygienist and I will be working the next two days. Is there anything that would cover them, so the patients would not be aware???
Doctor: Cellophane You for contacting Chat Doctor. Allergic reaction takes some time to settle. In the meanwhile you can cover it over the body by wearing appropriate long clothes which can cover most of the body to hide it. If itching occurs then you can take cetirizine once daily to prevent itching. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health.

Fact Query: What is the relationship between low dietary calcium and the risk of calcium oxalate stones?
Fact Answer: Low dietary calcium is associated with a higher risk of calcium oxalate stones.

Clinical Question: A 46-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 2-week history of diplopia and ocular pain when reading the newspaper. She also has a 3-month history of amenorrhea, hot flashes, and increased sweating. She reports that she has been overweight all her adult life and is happy to have lost 6.8-kg (15-lb) of weight in the past 2 months. Her pulse is 110/min, and blood pressure is 148/98 mm Hg. Physical examination shows moist palms and a nontender thyroid gland that is enlarged to two times its normal size. Ophthalmologic examination shows prominence of the globes of the eyes, bilateral lid retraction, conjunctival injection, and an inability to converge the eyes. There is no pain on movement of the extraocular muscles. Visual acuity is 20/20 bilaterally. Neurologic examination shows a fine resting tremor of the hands. Deep tendon reflexes are 3+ with a shortened relaxation phase. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's ocular complaints?
Correct Diagnosis: Glycosaminoglycan accumulation in the orbit

Patient: Hi my name is Wendy I ve been having an issue for the last couple of months or so I been having severe pain in my lower back around the front into the groin area and its radiating down my thigh and so on I am currently a cancer patient nobody seems to be able to tell me what it could be the pain is so bad that it brings tears to my eyes would you possibly know what it could be or might be
Doctor: HelloThanks for query. You have not mentioned in your query details regarding cancer you are suffering from. The pain in back radiating down to thigh can be mostly due to metastasis in the spines or in to lymph nodes, You need to consult your treating oncologist and get evaluated by doing C. T scan of abdomen and pelvis and Bone scan. Further treatment will depend upon result of these tests and final diagnosis. Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What condition is suggested by low Cortisol, low Na+ and high K+ in an infant?
Fact Answer: The suggested condition is 21-hydroxylase deficiency (CAH).

Clinical Question: A 1-year-old boy presents to the emergency department with weakness and a change in his behavior. His parents state that they first noticed the change in his behavior this morning and it has been getting worse. They noticed the patient was initially weak in his upper body and arms, but now he won’t move his legs with as much strength or vigor as he used to. Physical exam is notable for bilateral ptosis with a sluggish pupillary response, a very weak sucking and gag reflex, and shallow respirations. The patient is currently drooling and his diaper is dry. The parents state he has not had a bowel movement in over 1 day. Which of the following is the pathophysiology of this patient’s condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Blockade of presynaptic acetylcholine release at the neuromuscular junction

Patient: hye, My aunt is having shortness of breath and she is on vent now. Her breast showed some kind of infection that apparently turned out to have black blisters. I could she those spreading. When we went for lungs x-ray doctor said she has accumulation of water in her lungs
Doctor: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your aunts situation and problem. By your history and description, possibility of bacterial infection especially staphylococcus is more in her case. She is having pleural effusion and infective skin lesions on breast. Staphylococcus can cause pleural effusion and blister formation on skin. So chances of staphylococcal infection is more in her case. Better to send pleural fluid culture and sensitivity for the diagnosis of staphylococcal infection. This will also tell about effective antibiotic therapy. With appropriate antibiotics and Care, this infection can be treated. Hope I have solved your query. Wishing good health to your aunt. Thanks.

Fact Query: What conditions are associated with low Ca2+ and low PTH?
Fact Answer: Low Ca2+ and low PTH is seen in primary hypoparathyroidism.

Clinical Question: A 9-month-old female is brought to the emergency department after experiencing a seizure. She was born at home and was normal at birth according to her parents. Since then, they have noticed that she does not appear to be achieving developmental milestones as quickly as her siblings, and often appears lethargic. Physical exam reveals microcephaly, very light pigmentation (as compared to her family), and a "musty" body odor. The varied manifestations of this disease can most likely be attributed to which of the following genetic principles?
Correct Diagnosis: Pleiotropy

Patient: i am 28 yrs old, i got married before 6 year, i was infected by pulmonary tuberculosis before 6 years, i took treatment for 6 months after that i statred gainig weigt, my periods was irredulat, i increased nearlt 20 kgs after that, now my weight is 75 kgs, i trying to conceive, i took tsh, other blood test too, but everything is normal, do i have the chances to conceive
Doctor: Hi, thank you for asking Chat Doctor I understand your concerns No need to worry so much. The chances of conceiving still exist with irregular periods. I don't know if you have been trying to conceive but to no avail. If that is the case, then I think both of you have to be assessed. Infertility within a couple can be linked to a man, woman or both. If everything is fine with you except irregular periods, then I would advise that both of you should see a doctor for assessment and counseling. I hope that helps wish you well

Fact Query: What is the relationship between low Albumin and serum total calcium levels?
Fact Answer: Low Albumin is associated with low serum total calcium levels.

Clinical Question: A 23-year-old man comes to the physician for evaluation of decreased hearing, dizziness, and ringing in his right ear for the past 6 months. Physical examination shows multiple soft, yellow plaques and papules on his arms, chest, and back. There is sensorineural hearing loss and weakness of facial muscles bilaterally. His gait is unsteady. An MRI of the brain shows a 3-cm mass near the right internal auditory meatus and a 2-cm mass at the left cerebellopontine angle. The abnormal cells in these masses are most likely derived from which of the following embryological structures?
Correct Diagnosis: Neural crest

Patient: I sprained my foot on Friday. I stepped on what I thought was lawn. Instead I was a bit on the lawn, but the outside of my foot snapped down into a trough. My foot has been swollen since Friday. Today is Thursday. Kept ice on it for 24 hours. Bruising started after that, Now bruising is spreading. It is really dark on my toes. Pain is on outside of my foot, not on my ankle.
Doctor: Hello, You have sustained twisting injury to foot which may lead to sprain or minor fracture in foot bones. Diagnosis needs to be confirmed by doing x-ray of the involved foot anteroposterior and oblique views to rule out bony abnormalities. If x-ray is normal RICE therapy is needed which means Rest Ice application Compression bandage and Limb Elevation. Tab Diclofenac sodium twice a day for pain relief and tab Choral forte twice a day for swelling reduction is required. If x-ray shows fracture Below knee slab may be given. If X-ray is abnormal please consult orthopedic surgeon nearby your area.  Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Fact Query: What is the term used to describe a condition of low sodium levels and very high proteins or lipids?
Fact Answer: The term used to describe a condition of low sodium levels and very high proteins or lipids is pseudohyponatremia.

Clinical Question: A 62-year-old woman comes to the physician because of coughing and fatigue during the past 2 years. In the morning, the cough is productive of white phlegm. She becomes short of breath walking up a flight of stairs. She has hypertension and hyperlipidemia. She has recently retired from working as a nurse at a homeless shelter. She has smoked 1 pack of cigarettes daily for 40 years. Current medications include ramipril and fenofibrate. Her temperature is 36.5°C (97.7°F), respirations are 24/min, pulse is 85/min, and blood pressure is 140/90 mm Hg. Scattered wheezing and rhonchi are heard throughout both lung fields. There are no murmurs, rubs, or gallops but heart sounds are distant. Which of the following is the most likely underlying cause of this patient's symptoms?
Correct Diagnosis: Progressive obstruction of expiratory airflow

Patient: hi, i have been recently diagnosed with H pylori.. i have been give the triple treatment of calithramycin, amoxxicilin and omeprazole.. is dis something very serious and does this have some long term implications etc.can u plz give some detailed information about Hpylori. thnx
Doctor: HiT hanks for choosing Chat Doctor for your query. I appreciate your concern towards H pylori infection which normally causes break in the lining of the stomach (peptic ulcer). H pylori is an exceptional bacterium which can survive in the acidic environment of the stomach producing tissue damage result in ulcer. Since this is a bacterial infection, hence antibiotics are used for 2 weeks to kill H pylori. Along with antibiotics Omeprazole is given for a period of 4-6 weeks to suppress the acid production and to increase the healing process of the ulcer. It is not a serious condition, usually triple treatment is sufficient to cure this condition. You must avoid taking Alcohol, hot and spicy foods, NSAID painkiller, smoking, caffeine, carbonated sweetened soft Chat Doctor. I hope all your doubts have been clarified in a simple language,Feedback in this regard is highly appreciated. Take care

Fact Query: What are the causes of secondary hyperparathyroidism in relation to low calcium, low phosphate, high PTH and low calcium, high phosphate, high PTH?
Fact Answer: Secondary hyperparathyroidism can be caused by vitamin D deficiency in the case of low calcium, low phosphate, high PTH, and chronic kidney disease in the case of low calcium, high phosphate, high PTH.

Clinical Question: A 68-year-old man presents to the emergency department with leg pain. He states that the pain started suddenly while he was walking outside. The patient has a past medical history of diabetes, hypertension, obesity, and atrial fibrillation. His temperature is 99.3°F (37.4°C), blood pressure is 152/98 mmHg, pulse is 97/min, respirations are 15/min, and oxygen saturation is 99% on room air. Physical exam is notable for a cold and pale left leg. The patient’s sensation is markedly diminished in the left leg when compared to the right, and his muscle strength is 1/5 in his left leg. Which of the following is the best next step in management?
Correct Diagnosis: Heparin drip

Patient: I had a alt reading about 2+ months ago of 43 then retested today and got a 60 alt reading my other readings came back normal should I be concerned?Im 40 years 5ft 3 and weigh 192albs have a history of chronic vertigo and insomnia, and chronic sinus problems. I take valium 5 mg 4 times a day, fluticansone 2 puffs each nose once a day, qvair two puffs twice a day to prevent weasing, claritin for allergies, and I do sinus rinses as needed. I am female.My doctor says none of the medicine has liver side effects, and I dont drink alcohol but a sip on the rare occasion. He thinks it could be do my weight and Im working on this with gradual exercise when Im able too. Should I be worried with this test result? I had one other result that was high my triglcyerides read 198 ? WWW.WWWW.WW
Doctor: Hello and thank you for asking Chat Doctor. I have read your report, and I understand your concerns. First I would say to not worry. Normal Alt levels are 7 to 56 unit (depending on from the kits that laboratories use)In one of your tests, your Alt was 60. This level is almost normal and it doesn't always mean a serious condition of your liver. Here are some reasons why a healthy person might have changes in the levels of liver enzymes

Fact Query: What is the relationship between high levels of hCG and the occurrence of a complete hydatidiform mole?
Fact Answer: A very high level of hCG is indicative of a complete hydatidiform mole.

Clinical Question: A 76-year-old African American man presents to his primary care provider complaining of urinary frequency. He wakes up 3-4 times per night to urinate while he previously only had to wake up once per night. He also complains of post-void dribbling and difficulty initiating a stream of urine. He denies any difficulty maintaining an erection. His past medical history is notable for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and gout. He takes aspirin, atorvastatin, enalapril, and allopurinol. His family history is notable for prostate cancer in his father and lung cancer in his mother. He has a 15-pack-year smoking history and drinks alcohol socially. On digital rectal exam, his prostate is enlarged, smooth, and non-tender. Which of the following medications is indicated in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Tamsulosin

Patient: i had surgery done 5 months ago for scar tissue and adhesion removal. my gynecologist just found a cyst on my right ovary. im still having problems, when my husband and i have sex i get severe cervical pain and afterward i get abdominal cramps severe enough i get light headed, also i get abdominal pain and rectal pain before and during a bowel movement, i also get abdominal pain during urination. im 26 years old. what could it be?
Doctor: Hi. Thanks for your query and an elucidated history. Understood the history well. You have an obvious reason for pain - the adhesions and scar must have reformed. But the history of Dyspareunia, meaning painful sex indicated the is some active inflammatory process still going on in the pelvis called PID-Pelvic Inflammatory Disease. Cystitis and Procto-colitis are the additional problems causing the pain in abdomen and rectum before and during bowel movements as also during urination. Ovarian cyst can cause problem only if it enlarges fast or gets twisted. I would advise you the following

Fact Query: What does a combination of very high Hematocrit and low EPO suggest?
Fact Answer: The combination of very high Hematocrit and low EPO is suggestive of polycythemia vera.

Clinical Question: A 68-year-old man comes to the physician because of recurrent episodes of nausea and abdominal discomfort for the past 4 months. The discomfort is located in the upper abdomen and sometimes occurs after eating, especially after a big meal. He has tried to go for a walk after dinner to help with digestion, but his complaints have only increased. For the past 3 weeks he has also had symptoms while climbing the stairs to his apartment. He has type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and stage 2 peripheral arterial disease. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for the past 45 years. He drinks one to two beers daily and occasionally more on weekends. His current medications include metformin, enalapril, and aspirin. He is 168 cm (5 ft 6 in) tall and weighs 126 kg (278 lb); BMI is 45 kg/m2. His temperature is 36.4°C (97.5°F), pulse is 78/min, and blood pressure is 148/86 mm Hg. On physical examination, the abdomen is soft and nontender with no organomegaly. Foot pulses are absent bilaterally. An ECG shows no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Cardiac stress test

Patient: Hi, I had a subarachnoid bleed and coiling of brain aneurysm last year. I am having some major bilateral temple pain along with numbness that comes and goes in my left arm/hand/fingers. I have had headaches since the aneurysm, but this is different. Also, my moods have been horrible for the past few weeks.
Doctor: Aneurysm in brain causes headache due to compression of pain sensitive structure in brain. But pain is usually unilateral not bilateral. This pain will not radiate in both upper limb. Bilateral upper limb pain may be due to cervical spondylosis or other causes. You have anxiety of aneurysm, so due to anxiety your mood is horrible because aneurysm does not cause horrible mood change. So your headache may be chronic tension type headache. You may relieve by antianxiety Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What are potential effects of very high hCG in a choriocarcinoma on males, and how is this related to alpha subunit homology?
Fact Answer: Very high hCG in a choriocarcinoma can cause gynecomastia in males, and can also lead to hyperthyroidism due to alpha subunit homology between hCG and TSH, FSH, and LH.

Clinical Question: A 27-year-old female presents to general medical clinic for a routine checkup. She has a genetic disease marked by a mutation in a chloride transporter. She has a history of chronic bronchitis. She has a brother with a similar history of infections as well as infertility. Which of the following is most likely true regarding a potential vitamin deficiency complication secondary to this patient's chronic illness?
Correct Diagnosis: It may manifest itself as a prolonged PT

Patient: Almost everytime I eat, it burns when I swallow. Not in my throat but in my chest. It burns all the way down. It helps a lil if I drink water after I swallow. I wake up a lot in the middle of the night with heartburn so I chew some tums and it helps for the most part. Why is it so painful when I eat?
Doctor: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. In my opinion, you are mostly having HERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease). It is due to laxity of gastroesophageal sphincter. Because of this the acid of the stomach tends to come up in the esophagus and cause burning in chest. So follow these steps for better symptomatic relief. 1. Avoid stress and tension. 2. Avoid hot and spicy food. Avoid junk food. Avoid large meals, instead take frequent small meals. 3. Take proton pump inhibitors and prokinetic Chat Doctor.  4. Keep 2 - 3 pillows under head in the bed to prevent reflux. 5. Quit smoking and alcohol if you have these habits. Lose weight if you are obese. Don't worry, you will be alright with all these. Hope I have solved your query. I will be happy to help you further. Wish you good health. Thanks.

Fact Query: What are the potential effects of very high hCG in a choriocarcinoma?
Fact Answer: Very high hCG in a choriocarcinoma can cause gynecomastia in males and hyperthyroidism due to α-subunit homology between hCG and TSH, FSH, and LH.

Clinical Question: A previously healthy 36-year-old man comes to the physician for a yellow discoloration of his skin and dark-colored urine for 2 weeks. He does not drink any alcohol. Physical examination shows jaundice. Abdominal and neurologic examinations show no abnormalities. Serum studies show increased levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST). A liver biopsy is performed and a photomicrograph after periodic acid-Schiff-staining is shown. Which of the following is the most likely additional finding in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Bullous changes of the lung bases on chest CT

Patient: for the pst  6 days  i have been haing  upper  abdome  distress ...  i have had gall bladder  surgery  2 yrs  ago ..in the past  2  yrs  when i get these bouts  .. i go to  emerg  they run cardiograms  xrays ,blood work ,all comes back normal  ...im stressing out  over this  as im  scared every time it happens  im having a heart  attack  wht is it  ?
Doctor: Hi. Thanks for your query, read and understood your problems. You are getting bouts of pain in the upper abdomen within the last 2 years particularly after the gall bladder surgery. This is great news that cardiac problems are ruled out by the tests every time in the emergency Room. This means that we have to find a local cause in the abdomen itself. I would suggest the following

Fact Query: What are the potential effects of very high hCG levels in a choriocarcinoma, particularly in males, and what is the mechanism behind these effects?
Fact Answer: Very high hCG levels in a choriocarcinoma can cause gynecomastia in males or hyperthyroidism due to the α-subunit homology between hCG and TSH, FSH, and LH.

Clinical Question: A 69-year-old male presents to the emergency room with back pain. He has a history of personality disorder and metastatic prostate cancer and was not a candidate for surgical resection. He began chemotherapy but discontinued due to unremitting nausea. He denies any bowel or bladder incontinence. He has never had pain like this before and is demanding morphine. The nurse administers IV morphine and he feels more comfortable. Vital signs are stable. On physical examination you note tenderness to palpation along the lower spine, weakness in the bilateral lower extremities, left greater than right. Neurological examination is also notable for hyporeflexia in the knee and ankle jerks bilaterally. You conduct a rectal examination, which reveals saddle anesthesia. Regarding this patient, what is the most likely diagnosis and the appropriate next step in management?
Correct Diagnosis: The most likely diagnosis is cauda equina syndrome and steroids should be started prior to MRI

Patient: I have a hole its about the size of a dime at the beggining of my butt crack (gross I know) but Im just wondering how to get rid of it at home I put anti bacterial on it with a q - tip it sizzles but nothing comes out or changes . What do I do ? (At home )
Doctor: **1. Opinion and examination with Surgeon is of utmost importance since hole around butt crack could be

Fact Query: What does high VMA and high HVA in infants suggest?
Fact Answer: High VMA and high HVA in infants are suggestive of neuroblastoma.

Clinical Question: An investigator is studying the function of the lateral nucleus of the hypothalamus in an experimental animal. Using a viral vector, the genes encoding chloride-conducting channelrhodopsins are injected into this nucleus. Photostimulation of the channels causes complete inhibition of action potential generation. Persistent photostimulation is most likely to result in which of the following abnormalities in these animals?
Correct Diagnosis: Anorexia

Patient: Dear Doctor, We are trying to have a baby and gave it a big try this time but as we are planning to go for an Invitro (ICSI) for the next period, my doctor gave me Primolut Not from day 16 to day 25. I am wondering if this will have a negative impact on my pregnancy if I am pregnant because as explained we gave it a big try this time. Thank you in advance for your response. With my Best Regards; Mme Sue
Doctor: Hellos you are going in for CSI next month, your doctor has given you Primal N for regulating the cycles. However, in case you have conceived this month, it is not advisable to take Primal N, as it causes virilization of female fetus and other abnormalities in the baby. There are other formulations of progesterone like Me Chat Doctor. These can be substituted for Primal - N. Please brief your IVF practitioner about the state of affairs and switch over to a safer

Fact Query: What are the conditions that can be suggested by the presence of crystals in joints?
Fact Answer: The presence of monosodium urate crystals in joints can be suggestive of gout, while the presence of calcium pyrophosphate crystals in joints can be suggestive of pseudogout.

Clinical Question: A 52-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 6-month history of generalized fatigue, low-grade fever, and a 10-kg (22-lb) weight loss. Physical examination shows generalized pallor and splenomegaly. Her hemoglobin concentration is 7.5 g/dL and leukocyte count is 41,800/mm3. Leukocyte alkaline phosphatase activity is low. Peripheral blood smear shows basophilia with myelocytes and metamyelocytes. Bone marrow biopsy shows cellular hyperplasia with proliferation of immature granulocytic cells. Which of the following mechanisms is most likely responsible for this patient's condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Unregulated expression of the ABL1 gene

Patient: Hello, I am in the middle of a serious anxiety/panic attack as I just became aware that I may have a tetanus infection. I am a senior at Clemson University and to be honest the apartment where I resided in the past four months was extremely unsanitary. One toilet was clogged for nearly two months which I now know could have bred bacterial spores that cause tetanus infections. I cut myself shaving around 1 1/2 months ago. I was out of razors and used a razor that had been sitting in the bathroom with the clogged up toilet I mentioned above. I did clean the razor with rubbing alcohol before use however I had an open wound on my face for a while.. About a week. For about a month now I have been feeling extremely irritable, experiencing lockjaw symptoms, been short of breath, had fevers on and off, heart palpitations, and I have noticed that when I smile my face contorts into what one would call a sardonic smile. Am I going to die? Please let me know your opinion
Doctor: Hello, Welcome to Chat Doctor, I have gone through your query and understand your concern. Tetanus is a bacterial disease by clostridium retain. There is no cure for tetanus, but it can be prevented by adequate vaccination. Usual symptoms are all due to painful contraction of muscles as it affects our nervous system. Spasms and stiffness in your jaw muscles, stiffness of your neck muscles, difficulty swallowing, stiffness of your abdominal muscles, painful body spasms lasting for several minutes, typically frittered by minor occurrences, such as a Chat Doctor. If you are not get immunized for tetanus, you should start tetanus toxic vaccination now itself. First 2 doses at 4 weeks apart. Third dose after 6 months. After that your immunity may stand up to 10 years. Thank you.

Fact Query: How does high preload affect the intensity of HOCM murmur?
Fact Answer: High preload leads to a decrease in the intensity of HOCM murmur.

Clinical Question: A 42-year-old woman is in the hospital recovering from a cholecystectomy performed 3 days ago that was complicated by cholangitis. She is being treated with IV piperacillin-tazobactam. She calls the nurse to her room because she says that her heart is racing. She also demands that someone come in to clean the pile of garbage off of the floor because it is attracting flies. Her pulse is 112/min, respiratory rate is 20/min, temperature is 38.0°C (100.4°F), and blood pressure is 150/90 mm Hg. On physical examination, the patient appears sweaty, distressed, and unable to remain still. She is oriented to person, but not place or time. Palpation of the abdomen shows no tenderness, rebound, or guarding. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Delirium tremens

Patient: Hi hope you can helpive been getting chest pains, not severe but a constant pain, can happen when im just resting but has also happened when im exercising, it continues through to my back as well. I sometimes wake up with chest pains too. i have a strong history of heart disease. grandfather died at 26 from a heat attack and mother had one at 45, also grandmother on the other side had a heart attack. Could you please explain what is happening? Thanks
Doctor: HelloThanks for posting at Chat Doctor. You have not provided your age on the details. I would have been able to help u better had you mentioned your age. You have complaints of chest pain radiating to back with strong family history. So in your case it is better that we evaluate you for presence of heart disease. I recommend an ECG and 2d echo initially. If both these tests are normal you can proceed for a treadmill test which requires you to walk on a treadmill while your ECG is continuously monitored. This will show if the heart blood supply suffers while you are exercising which indirectly predicts whether you have blockages in your heart. Please do the above tests and revert. Wishing you good healthRegards.

Fact Query: What is suggested by high PCWP worsening after IVF and arrhythmias?
Fact Answer: High PCWP worsening after IVF and arrhythmias is suggestive of myocardial contusion.

Clinical Question: A 48-year-old woman comes to the emergency department because of a photosensitive blistering rash on her hands, forearms, and face for 3 weeks. The lesions are not itchy. She has also noticed that her urine has been dark brown in color recently. Twenty years ago, she was successfully treated for Coats disease of the retina via retinal sclerotherapy. She is currently on hormonal replacement therapy for perimenopausal symptoms. Her aunt and sister have a history of a similar skin lesions. Examination shows multiple fluid-filled blisters and oozing erosions on the forearms, dorsal side of both hands, and forehead. There is hyperpigmented scarring and patches of bald skin along the sides of the blisters. Laboratory studies show a normal serum ferritin concentration. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management to induce remission in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Begin phlebotomy therapy

Patient: Im 28 year old and suffering from male baldness pattern. I started using RICHFEEL tricology centres saw palmetto treatment but it didnt help, then I tried Minoxidil 5%  but discontinued it after 12 days after having some side effects (some tiny boils on my forehead). Kindly suggest me which medicine i should take.
Doctor: Hi, You may stop it for a few days. Take oral treatment like tab finasteride 1 mg daily with tab biotin 10 mg thrice a day. Cleanse the scalp with ketoconazole shampoo daily. After a few days you may restart the minoxidil. Tiny boils may be folliculitis. Take a course of antibiotic like cap Doxycycline. Avoid stress and worries. Continue treatment for long time to get good result in an Chat Doctor.  Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Fact Query: How can high levels of Oxytocin affect fetal heart rate?
Fact Answer: High levels of Oxytocin can lead to late decelerations in fetal heart rate. This is because uterine tachysystole caused by high Oxytocin levels can compress blood flow to the baby and result in hypoxia.

Clinical Question: A 53-year-old man comes to the emergency department because of severe right-sided flank pain for 3 hours. The pain is colicky, radiates towards his right groin, and he describes it as 8/10 in intensity. He has vomited once. He has no history of similar episodes in the past. Last year, he was treated with naproxen for swelling and pain of his right toe. He has a history of hypertension. He drinks one to two beers on the weekends. Current medications include amlodipine. He appears uncomfortable. His temperature is 37.1°C (99.3°F), pulse is 101/min, and blood pressure is 130/90 mm Hg. Examination shows a soft, nontender abdomen and right costovertebral angle tenderness. An upright x-ray of the abdomen shows no abnormalities. A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis shows a 7-mm stone in the proximal ureter and grade I hydronephrosis on the right. Which of the following is most likely to be seen on urinalysis?
Correct Diagnosis: Urinary pH: 4.7

Patient: I too fell and hurt my left side of my chest. I have a large lump and I am very black and blue. I need to fly out on Sunday this fall happen last Sunday. I have been taking aleve for pain and arnica gel. Should I be worried about the flight? I am 70 Thank you,
Doctor: Welcome to ChatDoctorYou may be having rib fractures. You have to do x-ray chest as early as possible. Rib fractures can cause pneumothorax/air in chest or hemothorax/blood in the chest which will be seen on x-ray. Only rib fractures needs no treatment except painkillers. But if pseudo or hemothorax is present that needs ICD tube insertion in the chest. In that case air travel should be avoided. Regards

Fact Query: What are the potential effects of high Oxytocin levels during childbirth? Why do these effects occur?
Fact Answer: High Oxytocin levels during childbirth can lead to late decelerations in fetal heart rate. This is because uterine tachysystole causes compression of blood flow to the baby, leading to hypoxia.

Clinical Question: A 5-year-old girl is brought to the clinic by her mother for excessive hair growth. Her mother reports that for the past 2 months she has noticed hair at the axillary and pubic areas. She denies any family history of precocious puberty and reports that her daughter has been relatively healthy with an uncomplicated birth history. She denies any recent illnesses, weight change, fever, vaginal bleeding, pain, or medication use. Physical examination demonstrates Tanner stage 4 development. A pelvic ultrasound shows an ovarian mass. Laboratory studies demonstrates an elevated level of estrogen. What is the most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Granulosa cell tumor

Patient: I have had a few small hard painless bumps where my cheek goes to my gums. this may sound terrible but they have been there, the same size & number for about a year if I remember correctly (scratch that, I just talked with a friend of mine & remebered they have been there for four years) & I have yet to tell my dentist about them. any thoughts? I am a 16 yr. old male & have used snuff habitually before, for only a few years but none the less.
Doctor: Taking snuff for a prolonged period is not known to cause cancer, but it may lead to a number of local infections. Also, such people have a number of vitamin deficiencies which may also lead to irregularities in the cheeks and gums. I would advise you to take an antibiotic and antifungal (Tab Ciprofloxacin 500\u00a0mg twice daily +Tab For can 150\u00a0mg twice daily) plus a multivitamin (Tab B-Complex twice daily), all for 15 days. If your bumps don't improve by then, you should consult a surgeon.

Fact Query: What is the relationship between high Mitral stenosis severity and the gap between S2 and opening snap?
Fact Answer: High Mitral stenosis severity is associated with a low gap between S2 and opening snap.

Clinical Question: A 16-year-old boy is brought to the physician by his mother because she is worried about his behavior. Yesterday, he was expelled from school for repeatedly skipping classes. Over the past 2 months, he was suspended 3 times for bullying and aggressive behavior towards his peers and teachers. Once, his neighbor found him smoking cigarettes in his backyard. In the past, he consistently maintained an A grade average and had been a regular attendee of youth group events at their local church. The mother first noticed this change in behavior 3 months ago, around the time at which his father moved out after discovering his wife was having an affair. Which of the following defense mechanisms best describes the change in this patient's behavior?
Correct Diagnosis: Acting out

Patient: my mother is 80 yrs. detected with vulva cancer. vulva is swollen red ,around discolourisation, white growth now extending to rectum. biopsy shows keratinizing squamous carcinoma vulva(welldifferentiated,invasive).she is little asthmatic, has cervical spondeolytis .
Doctor: Hi, dairy have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. She has well differentiated keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma.  If her general health is good then treatment of choice is wide excision of carcinoma followed by chemotherapy or radiotherapy if needed. Consult your doctor and take treatment accordingly. Hope I have answered your question, if you have doubt then I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using Chat Doctor. Wish you a very good health.

Fact Query: What is the relationship between high levels of insulin, β-agonist, and alkalosis?
Fact Answer: High levels of insulin, β-agonist, and alkalosis are associated with hypokalemia.

Clinical Question: A 63-year-old woman presents to her primary-care doctor for a 2-month history of vision changes, specifically citing the gradual onset of double vision. Her double vision is present all the time and does not get better or worse throughout the day. She has also noticed that she has a hard time keeping her right eye open, and her right eyelid looks 'droopy' in the mirror. Physical exam findings during primary gaze are shown in the photo. Her right pupil is 6 mm and poorly reactive to light. The rest of her neurologic exam is unremarkable. Laboratory studies show an Hb A1c of 5.0%. Which of the following is the next best test for this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: MR angiography of the head

Patient: Suddenly this morning I got really excruciating lower right back pain. I was standing in the kitchen and it came on suddenly. It s the lower right side. It does not go down in the my legs it s just isolated to my back. I have no nausea or no blood in my urine. Any idea on what it could be?
Doctor: Hello! Welcome to Chat Doctor ! Lower back pain may cause by right lumber disc prolapse whicChatDoctorpresses the nerve. But exact other causes are diagnosed by physical examination or by MRI. Common causes of lower backache and leg pain is a lumbar ruptured disc or herniated disc. Symptoms of a herniated disc may include dull or sharp pain, muscle spasm or cramping, sciatica, and leg weakness or loss of leg function. Sneezing, coughing, or bending usually intensify the pain. Rarely bowel or bladder control is lost, and if this occurs, seek medical attention at once. Sciatica is a symptom frequently associated with a lumbar herniated disc. Pressure on one or several nerves that contribute to the sciatic nerve can cause pain, burning, tingling, and numbness that extends from the buttock into the leg and sometimes into the foot. Usually one side (left or right) is affected. Take care

Fact Query: How is high FSH with absent breast development and no pubic hair managed?
Fact Answer: High FSH with absent breast development and no pubic hair is managed with karyotype testing.

Clinical Question: An investigator is studying the modification of newly formed polypeptides in plated eukaryotic cells. After the polypeptides are released from the ribosome, a chemically-tagged protein attaches covalently to lysine residues on the polypeptide chain, forming a modified polypeptide. When a barrel-shaped complex is added to the cytoplasm, the modified polypeptide lyses, resulting in individual amino acids and the chemically-tagged proteins. Which of the following post-translational modifications has most likely occurred?
Correct Diagnosis: Ubiquitination

Patient: Hey I am on my third antibiotic and still coughing and my ribs are killing me especially right side. Doc claims it is viral cough syndrome left over from bronchitis . I do not think so. No fever the whole time. Xray was clear on lungs. Taking mucinex, third antibiotic, inhaler and can not get better. Ulcers in mouth and my face in breaking out bad. Been sick since December 28,2012.
Doctor: Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum. The reasons for persistent cough, without findings in the lungs might, Uveitis a growth at the end of the throat, by touching the pharynx cause severe cough. For this type of cough you need to use cough suppressants like dexametarphane, codeine, etc which are present in some cough syrups.  Best thing to get relief immediately is Darling with Luke warm salt water 2 or 3 times a day. Avoid taking fruits, juices, ice creams, ice water to Chat Doctor.  I advise you to consult an E.N.T.surgeon who is the doctor concerned with the causes in the pharynx.  Wishing for a quick and comfortable relief, and thanks for calling.

Fact Query: What does a high FEV1 by > 15% after bronchodilator suggest?
Fact Answer: A high FEV1 by > 15% after bronchodilator suggests a diagnosis of asthma.

Clinical Question: A 38-year-old man presents to his physician with double vision persisting for a week. When he enters the exam room, the physician notes that the patient has a broad-based gait. The man’s wife informs the doctor that he has been an alcoholic for the last 5 years and his consumption of alcohol has increased significantly over the past few months. She also reports that he has become indifferent to his family members over time and is frequently agitated. She also says that his memory has been affected significantly, and when asked about a particular detail, he often recollects it incorrectly, though he insists that his version is the true one. On physical examination, his vital signs are stable, but when the doctor asks him where he is, he seems to be confused. His neurological examination also shows nystagmus. Which of the following options describes the earliest change in the pathophysiology of the central nervous system in this man?
Correct Diagnosis: Decreased α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity in astrocytes

Patient: Hi My mrs has this heart murmur, which is causing the blackouts, and she has panic attacks. Yesterday the doctor was quite concerned at how her blood pressure was so high, and then a couple of weeks go when she had her smear, it was too low. She has now got this bruising appearing around her lower back too, and i don t know how its been caused. I m really worried about her. Is this seriouse?
Doctor: Hello, I would explain that a heart murmur could be related a structural heart abnormality.  For this reason, I would recommend performing a cardiac ultrasound and a resting ECG in order to examine her heart function and structure.  Considering her blackout attacks, I would recommend performing some tests too

Fact Query: How does high estrogen, such as during pregnancy or OCP use, affect thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) and thyroid hormone levels?
Fact Answer: High estrogen levels lead to high thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) levels, which in turn lead to high total T3/T4 levels and potentially unchanged free T3/T4 levels.

Clinical Question: A 69-year-old man is brought by his son to the emergency department with weakness in his right arm and leg. The man insists that he is fine and blames his son for "creating panic". Four hours ago the patient was having tea with his wife when he suddenly dropped his teacup. He has had difficulty moving his right arm since then and cannot walk because his right leg feels stuck. He has a history of hypertension and dyslipidemia, for which he currently takes lisinopril and atorvastatin, respectively. He is allergic to aspirin and peanuts. A computerized tomography (CT) scan shows evidence of an ischemic stroke. Which medication would most likely prevent such attacks in this patient in the future?
Correct Diagnosis: Clopidogrel

Patient: I am on metformin 1000mg bid for pcos & was prescribed Percocet 10/650 for a severely displaced fracture needing surgery. I drink a glass of red wine nightly for heart heglth Bhc cardiac disease runs in my family... Should I be concerned a our elastase liver function test? I am also on Zoloft 150 daily, adderall 30mg bid & clonazepam as needed who I take a few night a a week
Doctor: Hi, dairy have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. You taken percent, clonazepam, Zoloft, Adderall so in my opinion you should avoid alcohol. It will damage the liver and will put you in trouble. You should check your liver enzymes levels once and also go for ultrasound abdomen once to rule out any alcoholic liver disease. Hope I have answered your question. If you have any doubts then feel free to ask me. I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using Chat Doctor. Wish you a very good health.

Fact Query: What conditions are suggested by high ESR/CK and bilateral proximal muscle weakness, and high ESR/CRP with stiffness/pain in the shoulders, hip, and neck?
Fact Answer: High ESR/CK and bilateral proximal muscle weakness suggest myositis, while high ESR/CRP and stiffness/pain in the shoulders, hip, and neck suggest polymyalgia rheumatica.

Clinical Question: A 70-year-old man presents to a medical clinic reporting blood in his urine and lower abdominal pain for the past few days. He is also concerned about urinary frequency and urgency. He states that he recently completed a cycle of chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Which medication in the chemotherapy regimen most likely caused his symptoms?
Correct Diagnosis: Cyclophosphamide

Patient: I stopped taking microgestin, mid-pack, on 12/5/13 after being on it for 2 1/2 months. I had withdrawal bleeding 12/9/13 - 12/13/13.I was supposed to get my period 1/5/14 but i am late. Before birth control my cycles were always regular and always 28-29 days. My boyfriend and i have been using the pullout method frequently before and after stopping the pill. Could i be pregnant?
Doctor: Hallow Dear, Since you are no more on the birth control pills now, you are no more having any contraceptive protection. Pull out technique is not a safe and reliable technique for contraception. In this method, the penis is pulled out of vagina before the ejaculation takes place. However, before ejaculation, pre-seminal or pre-ejaculatory secretions (pre-cum) are deposited in the vagina unknowingly. Pre-cum does contain some sperms which are capable of impregnating a woman. Now that you have missed your period, please get your pregnancy test done on overnight morning first urine sample a week after the missed period; earlier, the test may report false negative. Alternatively, you may perform Beta Chat Doctor test on the blood. This will help you detect your pregnancy status. If you are not pregnant, you may take some progestational preparation like Devilry for 5 days (with advice of a Gynecologist). Then within 4-7 days, you should get with Chat Doctor.  However, if you are pregnant, you may opt for medical termination of pregnancy. Since you are regularly engaged in sexual activity and do not want to continue with oral contraceptive pills, please adopt some other reliable contraceptive method like condom or intrauterine device. I hope this clarifies the issue.

Fact Query: What conditions present with high CK and bilateral proximal muscle weakness?
Fact Answer: Myositis is a condition that presents with high CK and bilateral proximal muscle weakness.

Clinical Question: A 27-year-old man presents to the emergency department after a dog bite. The patient was intoxicated and pulled the dog’s tail while it was eating. The dog belongs to his friend and is back at his friend’s house currently. Physical exam is notable for a dog bite on the patient’s right arm. The wound is irrigated and explored with no retained bodies found. A tetanus vaccination is administered. Which of the following is appropriate management of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Administer amoxicillin-clavulanic acid

Patient: I am going through Jaundice due to Hepatitis E, my stomach has gone too much weak, at time a lot of acidity. I was in hospital for 5 days but now feeling much better then before and my Total bilirubin has come down to 5 and liver enzymes are around 1400. Body is too much fluctuating, at times i feel better and at times i feel pathetic. I am on complete rest, at times i walk around else not much of physical work. I am taking monolive but i can see Liv52 is more famous, should i change that?
Doctor: HelloThanks for asking query on HC. I presume that you have been diagnosed with acute hepatitis E based on the relevant tests. You must know that acute hepatitis E is a self limiting disease, only needs supportive care. You are correctly started on Mongolia (UCA), please continue that, no need to change to Liv 52. Furthermore, you may also require acid suppressing and antiemetic tablets like - Antacid DSR along with some vitamin supplements. Have good quality food with necessary proteins and vitamins. You will become normal in another weak. Mind you bilirubin is the last thing to normalize. So don't worry about that. Alarm signs which one should keep in mind are - excessive sleepiness, bleeding manifestations and inability to eat anything. Take care.

Fact Query: What is the relationship between high Aldosterone levels and urine sodium levels?
Fact Answer: High Aldosterone levels are associated with low urine sodium levels.

Clinical Question: A 19-year-old woman, accompanied by her parents, presents after a one-week history of abnormal behavior, delusions, and unusual aggression. She denies fever, seizures or illicit drug use. Family history is negative for psychiatric illnesses. She was started on risperidone and sent home with her parents. Three days later, she is brought to the emergency department with fever and confusion. She is not verbally responsive. At the hospital, her temperature is 39.8°C (103.6°F), the blood pressure is 100/60 mm Hg, the pulse rate is 102/min, and the respiratory rate is 16/min. She is extremely diaphoretic and appears stiff. She has spontaneous eye-opening but she is not verbally responsive and she is not following commands. Laboratory studies show:
Sodium 142 mmol/L
Potassium 5.0 mmol/L
Creatinine 1.8 mg/dl
Calcium 10.4 mg/dl
Creatine kinase 9800 U/L
White blood cells 14,500/mm3
Hemoglobin 12.9 g/dl
Platelets 175,000/mm3
Urinalysis shows protein 1+, hemoglobin 3+ with occasional leukocytes and no red blood casts. What is the best first step in the management of this condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Stop risperidone

Patient: My family has recently gotten the scabies mite... WE have cleaned our house top to bott om with hot soapy water, Rid, Used a cleaner on carpet/couch. we treated ourselfs with Permethern cream, Eurax, and i have used tea tree oils, poroxide, etc. Everyone but me and a older son has kicked it. I have went as far as sanding my skin....My question is what do I do to rid it once and for all SAFETLY! I was told Borax in a tub ....is that safe? HELP
Doctor: Hi and thank you so much for this query. Can be very disturbing to get your entire household infested by scabies. Hygiene is the rule. Treating every sick person, washing and disinfection all linen as well as ironing would ensure that this bug is gotten rid of. So step up your personal hygiene after treating every affected individual and disinfecting all linen. I hope this ad Chat Doctor.  Feel free t ask for more information if needed. Thanks for using this panel for your questions.

Fact Query: What conditions are associated with high levels of AFP?
Fact Answer: Neural tube defects, abdominal wall defects, and multiple gestation are all conditions that are associated with high levels of AFP.

Clinical Question: A 35-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 1-month history of double vision, difficulty climbing stairs, and weakness when trying to brush her hair. She reports that these symptoms are worse after she exercises and disappear after she rests for a few hours. Physical examination shows drooping of her right upper eyelid that worsens when the patient is asked to gaze at the ceiling for 2 minutes. There is diminished motor strength in the upper extremities. The remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Myasthenia gravis

Patient: Hi, didn t expect to get a real person, but since your are here, I will tell you about symptoms I have been having. I think they are panic or anxiety attacks, but who knows. I get a tight feeling in the back of my head that moves to my temples then down into my throat and eventually down the middle of my chest. I get very emotional when this happens and after all that, I can t catch my breath and my heart beats really fast. It usually goes away in 2 or 3 minutes, if I can sit down and concentrate on my breathing. I recently had an MRI and my heart was found to be OK......any ideas????
Doctor: Degree understand your concerns went through your details. I suggest you not to worry much.  You are mistaken. We are human beings and are here to answer your queries. You can expect answer from a real person here. In anxiety attacks, obsession with a thought brings anxiety symptoms and then comes emotions. Before the symptoms comes, there is always apprehension. Anxiety attack or panic attack is always an after effect of anxiety. What is your reason for anxiety? Any fear, stress, molestation, health related worries? Find out and you shall get the answer. The answer shall help cure your condition. If you require more of my help in this aspect, Please post a direct question to me in this website. Make sure that you include every minute details possible. I shall prescribe the needed psychotherapy techniques which should help you cure your condition further. Hope this answers your query. Available for further clarifications. Good luck.

Fact Query: What does dyspepsia refer to?
Fact Answer: Dyspepsia refers to a spectrum of epigastric symptoms, including heartburn, "indigestion," bloating, and epigastric pain/discomfort.

Clinical Question: A 6-year-old male who recently immigrated to the United States from Asia is admitted to the hospital with dyspnea. Physical exam reveals a gray pseudomembrane in the patient's oropharynx along with lymphadenopathy. The patient develops myocarditis and expires on hospital day 5. Which of the following would have prevented this patient's presentation and decline?
Correct Diagnosis: Circulating IgG against AB exotoxin

Patient: I fell on uneven sidewalk on July 3rd and hurt my knee
Doctor: Welcome to Chat Doctor I have gone through your query and understand your concern. You're swelling of foot and calf may be related to edema after injury. It is useful to keep limb elevated. Active toe movement will be useful to reduce swelling. Analgesic such as ibuprofen is useful to get relief from pain. You can discuss with your doctor about it. Hope your query get answered. If you have any clarification then don't hesitate to write to us. I will be happy to help you. Wishing you a good health. Take care.

Fact Query: What type of delusion is represented by the statement, "The neighbors are spying on me by reading my mail"?
Fact Answer: The statement "The neighbors are spying on me by reading my mail" represents a non-bizarre delusion.

Clinical Question: A 12-year-old boy who recently emigrated from Pakistan presents with fever, muscle pain, and weakness of the trunk, abdomen, and legs. The patient’s mother says that he has not been vaccinated. Physical examination reveals fasciculation and flaccid paralysis of the lower limbs. A CSF analysis reveals lymphocytosis with normal glucose and protein levels. A throat swab reveals an RNA virus. Which of the following would most likely be destroyed by the virus in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Anterior horn of the spinal cord

Patient: Dear doctor, i am 33 male recently i have undergone pre employment medical check up and it was found that i have sgpt- 194 except this all test are absolutely normal test includes 1) CBC2. ESR and liver test 3. Urine Routine 4. Blood Group & Rh Factor 5. X-ray (Chest)6. General Physical Examination7. Fasting Blood Sugar &Post Prandial Blood Sugar8. Total Cholesterol9. ECG10. Serum Creatininenow they have advised me to got my ultrasound done full abdomen. i have got it done today and every thing is normal and they found mild fatty liver. Another thing i want to share that i was suffering from loose motions and was on Ofloxacin-200mg with ornidazole500mg B.D dosage (oflox OZ )medication for 2days and continued ofloxacin-200 B.D dosage (oflox) for another 3days as was suffering cold and cough also.now i need to go to gastro doctor to get the ultrasound reports checked. Just want to know what could be the reason for this elevated SGPT and will i get the clearance for joining new company.what should i do to lower my SGPT levels?? and what diet i should follow i am not a heavy drinker just take drinks occasionally and i am not fond of junk food as well.
Doctor: Hello, I can understand your concern for abnormal blood report.1) Your symptom of loose motion might be due to indigestion. There is no role of antibiotic in this. Instead, you should take intestinal digestive enzyme supplementation.2) Elevated SGPT level indicate either liver function is weak or liver has too much load to work. Fatty liver is condition in which excessive fat get deposited in liver tissue and affect liver function. This is the reason for elevated SGPT level in your case.3) Fatty liver is due to high level of fat in blood stream secondary to lipid (fat)-rich diet. This might lead to elevated cholesterol level. Thus, it is recommended for you to undergo lipid profile test.4) Mild fatty liver is reversible condition. You should do - regular exercise, intermittent fasting (weekly once), high protein diet, low fat-diet, use of omega-3 fatty acid containing oil in food preparation, avoidance of alcohol intake. Your SGPT level can come to normal range with these measure in 15-20 days. Hope I answered your query. If you have any further question, I would be happy to help you. Have a nice day!

Fact Query: What are the two substances that regulate δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase via negative feedback?
Fact Answer: The two substances that regulate δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase via negative feedback are glucose and heme.

Clinical Question: A researcher is studying the properties of an enzyme that adds phosphate groups to glucose. She discovers that the enzyme is present in most body tissues and is located in the cytoplasm of the cells expressing the enzyme. She decides to mix this enzyme under subphysiologic conditions with varying levels of glucose in order to determine the kinetic properties of the enzyme. Specifically, she adds increasing levels of glucose at a saturating concentration of phosphate and sees that the rate at which glucose becomes phosphorylated gets faster at higher levels of glucose. She observes that this rate approaches a maximum speed and calls this speed Y. She then determines the concentration of glucose that is needed to make the enzyme function at half the speed Y and calls this concentration X. Which of the following is most likely true about the properties of this enzyme?
Correct Diagnosis: Low X and low Y

Patient: Hello, My name is Wanda I am a 40year old female with type one diabetes (have had it for 7 years ) I have had a tooth infection in my gums for honestly on and off for about 2 years it swells up then bursts with yellowish clear pus above a tooth which needs to be pulled. I have felt like Ive had a sinus cold for the past few weeks and then discovered a sore on the inside of my left nostil.. could they be connected
Doctor: Hello Wanda and welcome. Thanks for sharing your concern. The roots of upper molars are in very proximity with the maxillary sinus above.Therefore, sometimes it becomes difficult to diagnose whether the patient presents pain due to tooth infection or sinusitis. But clinical evaluation with supporting x-rays makes it clear whether the origin of infection is teeth or sinus.Therefore, in my view please meet your dentist/ENT specialist for a sinus view x-ray. This will make things pretty clear.Meanwhile, do take good care of yourself.ET us know for further doubts. Thanks. Take care.

Fact Query: What are the regulators that control δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase via negative feedback?
Fact Answer: The negative feedback regulation of δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase is controlled by glucose and heme.

Clinical Question: A 31-year-old G2P2 female at 40 weeks gestation presents to the hospital following a rush of water that came from her vagina. She is 4 cm dilated and 80% effaced. Fetal heart tracing shows a pulse of 155/min with variable decelerations. About 12 hours after presentation, she gives birth to a 6 lb 15 oz baby boy with APGAR scores of 8 and 9 at 1 and 5 minutes, respectively. Which of the following structures is responsible for inhibition of female internal genitalia?
Correct Diagnosis: Sertoli cells

Patient: I had a partial root canal roughly 36 hours ago on my lower left rear molar (wisdom teeth extracted years ago).  The doctor drilled out the pulp (noting that it was mostly dead) and put on a temporary filling until the root canal specialist could see me.  Now, about 36 hours later, Im in quite a bit of pain again, both on the tooth that was operated on and in a molar on the top of my jaw and in the back jaw muscle.  My neck is rather swollen too and is tender to the touch.  I have plans to travel tomorrow by plane to see some family and go diving.  Is my condition something that requires immediate attention?  Should I not be flying or diving?
Doctor: Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. Dead pulp inside a root canal is almost always infected with several bacteria. Now, while removing those dead pulp/ remaining tissue or washing the root canal, there is every possibility that some part of that infected material pushed through the root apex foramen(hole) to the surrounding area. Naturally that area become infected and in many instances the infection expressed as an acute infection of root apex area with pain and may be with swelling. It is called ENDODONTIC FLARE UP. It may happen in 50% patients after the cleaning of root canal. The dentist has no control over it. There is no need of postponing your travel schedule. You should start an antibiotic like Augmenting or same type (Amoxicillin 500 mg + Clavulanic acid 125\u00a0mg) 8 hourly for 5 days. Along with that you have to take Diclofenac 100 mg + Paracetamol 500\u00a0mg, 3 times a day in full stomach. If you have a history of excessive acidity, you have to take 10 ml of any liquid antacid before taking Diclofenac.  Your pain will subside with in 2 to 3 days. But continue Antibiotic for 5 days. Best wishes.

Fact Query: What is the name of the enzyme that converts δ-aminolevulinic acid to porphobilinogen in heme synthesis?
Fact Answer: The enzyme that converts δ-aminolevulinic acid to porphobilinogen in heme synthesis is called δ-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase.

Clinical Question: A 43-year-old woman presents to the emergency department complaining of palpitations, dry cough, and shortness of breath for 1 week. She immigrated to the United States from Korea at the age of 20. She says that her heart is racing and she has never felt these symptoms before. Her cough is dry and is associated with shortness of breath that occurs with minimal exertion. Her past medical history is otherwise unremarkable. She has no allergies and is not currently taking any medications. She is a nonsmoker and an occasional drinker. She denies illicit drug use. Her blood pressure is 100/65 mm Hg, pulse is 76/min, respiratory rate is 23/min, and temperature is 36.8°C (98.2°F). Her physical examination is significant for bibasilar lung crackles and a non-radiating, low-pitched, mid-diastolic rumbling murmur best heard at the apical region. In addition, she has jugular vein distention and bilateral pitting edema in her lower extremities. Which of the following best describes the infectious agent that led to this patient’s condition?
Correct Diagnosis: A bacterium that induces complete lysis of the red cells of a blood agar plate with an oxygen-sensitive cytotoxin

Patient: My doctor had issue with finding the baby during my transvaginal ultrasound is that because I had to pee she could see the yoke sac and I measured 9 weeks but what she thought was the baby was measuring 7 weeks. I am just worried and want to know if that interfered
Doctor: Hello,First, do not panic. As you might be aware that yolk sac is a structure attached with an embryo-baby, for its nutrition in early pregnancy. The reason for not finding the baby and only finding the yolk sac can be small pregnancy duration may be due to delayed ovulation and delayed conception. I will suggest you get a repeat ultrasound done after two weeks. Please start on Folic acid and vitamin B 12 supplements. Option for a healthy diet and regular exercise regimen. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Fact Query: What is the product of the conversion of δ-aminolevulinic acid in heme synthesis, and what is the name of the enzyme that catalyzes this conversion?
Fact Answer: The product of the conversion of δ-aminolevulinic acid in heme synthesis is porphobilinogen, and the enzyme that catalyzes this conversion is called δ-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase.

Clinical Question: A male neonate is being examined by a pediatrician. His mother informs the doctor that she had a mild fever with rash, muscle pain, and swollen and tender lymph nodes during the second month of gestation. The boy was born at 39 weeks gestation via spontaneous vaginal delivery with no prenatal care. On physical examination, the neonate has normal vital signs. Retinal examination reveals the findings shown in the image. Which of the following congenital heart defects is most likely to be present in this neonate?
Correct Diagnosis: Patent ductus arteriosus

Patient: I hit a volleyball this after with the underside if my hand (made a fist) it bent my wrist backward causing pain. Now about 7 hrs later it is still very painful to my hand backwards and all to put pressure on my wrist. These are fairly sharp pains. It does not hurt to pick things up or grip most objects. There is only pain when I move my hand. Thank you.
Doctor: Dear patient You must have injured wrist ligament due to extreme stretching while playing and this is leading to pain. Still possibility of fracture needs to be ruled out, and I would advise X-ray of involved wrist with hand anteroposterior and lateral views.  Visit radiology center nearby you and get it done. If report is normal diagnosis is wrist sprain.  Avoid game for 2 weeks and apply wrist binder for 3 weeks. Start tab diclofenac plus serratiopeptodase combination twice a day for 5 days for pain relief. If X-ray report is abnormal you need to consult expert orthopedic surgeon with report.  All the best.

Fact Query: With what substance use is γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) associated?
Fact Answer: γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) is associated with alcohol use.

Clinical Question: A 4-year-old boy is brought to the emergency department by his parents. He is lethargic and confused and has a severe headache, vomiting, and a high-grade fever since earlier that day. His mother reports that the child was doing well until 2 days ago when he developed a fever and green nasal discharge. The patient has a history of neonatal sepsis, meningococcemia at 18 months of age, and pneumococcal pneumonia at 2 and 3 years of age. His scheduled vaccinations are up to date. His blood pressure is 70/50 mm Hg, heart rate is 120/min, respiratory rate is 22/min, and temperature is 39.3°C (102.4°F). On examination, the child is lethargic and his skin is pale, with several petechiae over his buttocks. There is a purulent nasal discharge from both nostrils. The lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. Heart sounds are normal. There is marked neck rigidity. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis shows the following results:
Opening pressure 100 mm H2O
Appearance cloudy
Protein 500 mg/dL (5 g/L)
White blood cells 2500/μL (polymorphonuclear predominance)
Protein 450 mg/dL (4.5 g/L)
Glucose 31 mg/dL (1.7 mmol/L)
Culture positive for N. meningitidis
Which of the following immunological processes is most likely to be impaired in this child?
Correct Diagnosis: Formation of C5-9 complex

Patient: I have a pacemaker, due to atrial fibrillation, and have been put on coumadin. It does not seem to thin my blood, and am on 750 mg a day, and it makes me nauseous and extremely dizzy, to the point where I can t function. Are there any foods that help thin the blood? Also, do fish oils help or hinder the thinning process? I would really like to take less medication and get results that are favorable.
Doctor: Hi, Green leafy vegetables like spinach, broccoli and food rich in vitamin K antagonize the effect of medicine. So these should be consumed in moderate amount, since we can't stop green vegetables altogether. And importantly, daily this intake should be kept constant otherwise effects may fluctuate.  Fish doesn't have significant effect on Chat Doctor. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Fact Query: Which part of the body's adrenergic stimulation is primarily suppressed by β1 selective antagonists, and what is another term for this selectivity?
Fact Answer: β1 selective antagonists primarily suppress adrenergic stimulation of the heart, and this selectivity is also known as cardioselective.

Clinical Question: A 66-year-old woman with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is brought to the emergency department because of fever, body aches, malaise, and a dry cough. She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 30 years but quit smoking 1 year ago. She lives with her daughter and her granddaughter, who attends daycare. Her temperature is 38.1°C (101°F). Physical examination shows bilateral conjunctivitis, rhinorrhea, and erythematous tonsils without exudates. Further testing confirms infection with an enveloped orthomyxovirus. Administration of a drug with which of the following mechanisms of action is most appropriate?
Correct Diagnosis: Inhibition of neuraminidase

Patient: My younger brother liver & spleen got enlarged. Hepatitis B&C found in blood. Mild ascitis & SOL on both lube of liver found. His age is 15. Weight is 28 kg. He is having serious less appetite. I am attaching the all the reports. Please advice us how to proceed and the exact condition of the patient.Here two doctors said he will need a full liver transplantation...
Doctor: Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor ... Your brother have both hepatitis b and c positive.... Your brother might have chronic liver affection with it can be cirrhosis liver associated... Morever you are mentioning space occupying lesion in liver... It should be investigated for malignancy as chance of development of hepatocellular carcinoma more if both B and C hepatitis present... For that contrast enhanced CT scan with AFP estimation can be done... If needed for confirmation USG guided biopsy might be needed.... Ultimate treatment for chronic liver problem is liver transplantation... Your report attached cant seen here in public forum questions... For more opinion you can consult gastroenterologist .... You can take follow up advise by using premium questions...Meanwhile, take low fat diet... Fruits taken more... Green leafy vegetables useful.... Take early in morning grinned spinach and carrot juice.... Hope you concern solved.... Take care.... Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What is the specific type of β-thalassemia that is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into the skull, and what is the appearance on X-ray that this expansion causes?
Fact Answer: The specific type of β-thalassemia that is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into the skull is β-thalassemia major, and this expansion causes a "crewcut" appearance on X-ray.

Clinical Question: A 38-year-old woman undergoes hemithyroidectomy for treatment of localized, well-differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma. The lesion is removed with clear margins. However, during the surgery, a structure lying directly adjacent to the superior thyroid artery at the upper pole of the thyroid lobe is damaged. This patient is most likely to experience which of the following symptoms?
Correct Diagnosis: Voice pitch limitation

Patient: Hi Over the past 2 days I have had a sore jaw on the right side only. Doesn t feel sore on the outside of my face, but extremely tender on the tendon that attaches jaw together. Inside of cheek also appears swollen. Right side of tongue feels strange, and slightly sore to swallow also. I m 40 but my wisdom teeth never came in, could this be a cause?
Doctor: Hello, I can understand your concern. Usually, wisdom teetChatDoctore in mouth at the age of 18 to 25 years. However, as you have never had them in mouth, it is possible that they might be impacted or locked in the jaw. As right side of jaw is causing you pain, let us focus on that only. Due to absence of physical space to come out in mouth or due to its improper position, it might be possible that the wisdom tooth of that side was locked in the jaw all this time and now might be impinging on the muscle of the mastication or nerve that supplies tongue causing you the pain and discomfort you are experiencing. It is also a possibility that a tooth might be decayed on the side of the jaw that is causing you problems, has developed an abscess that is causing these symptoms. In both cases, you need to visit a dentist to get an oral examination to find out if any tooth is decayed and taking x-ray of the wisdom tooth area to diagnose wisdom tooth related problem. By the time you ET an appointment of the dentist, Ibuprofen 400 mg thrice a day will help you in getting relief from pain. Please refrain from hot water gargles or heat compression as if the pain would be abscess related, it would worsen. I hope this information helps you. Thank you for choosing Chat Doctor. I wish you feel better soon. Best,

Fact Query: What is β-thalassemia major and how does it affect the appearance of the skull on X-ray?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia major is a specific type of β-thalassemia that is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into the skull, which leads to a "crewcut" appearance on X-ray.

Clinical Question: A 27-year-old man presents to the emergency room with persistent fever, nausea, and vomiting for the past 3 days. While waiting to be seen, he quickly becomes disoriented and agitated. Upon examination, he has visible signs of difficulty breathing with copious oral secretions and generalized muscle twitching. The patient’s temperature is 104°F (40°C), blood pressure is 90/64 mmHg, pulse is 88/min, and respirations are 18/min with an oxygen saturation of 90% on room air. When the nurse tries to place a nasal cannula, the patient becomes fearful and combative. The patient is sedated and placed on mechanical ventilation. Which of the following is a risk factor for the patient’s most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Spelunking

Patient: Hi, Can anyone give me the solution for Aplastic Anemia ? my 4 years old daughter suffering from Aplastic anemia since April 2010. Regards, Vinod
Doctor: Dear Vinod

Fact Query: What is β-thalassemia major and how does it affect the appearance of the face?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia major is a specific type of β-thalassemia that is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into facial bones, which leads to a "chipmunk facies".

Clinical Question: A 21-year-old man presents to the emergency department after sustaining a stab wound to the neck at a local farmer's market. The patient is otherwise healthy and is complaining of pain. The patient is able to offer the history himself. His temperature is 97.6°F (36.4°C), blood pressure is 120/84 mmHg, pulse is 90/min, respirations are 15/min, and oxygen saturation is 98% on room air. Physical exam demonstrates a 3 cm laceration 1 cm inferior to the mastoid process on the right side. The patient's breath sounds are clear and he is protecting his airway. No stridor or difficulty breathing is noted. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: CT angiogram

Patient: I HAVE HAD SEVERAL TIAS BEFORE THE AGE OF 40 AND JUST RECENTLY I HAD DIFFICULTIES ORGANSIZING MY THOUGHTS AND THEN TRYINGTO SAYING WHAT WAS IN MY BRAIN HAPPENED APRIL 15 AND THEN THE NEXT DAY WHEN I ANSWERED THE PHONE WERE I VOLUNTEERED IT HAPPENED AGAIN; I COULD NOT SAY GOOD AFTERNOON SHIRLEY SPEAKING HOW MAY I HELP YOU. ANY SUGGESTIONS WHAT I WAS EXPERIENCING?
Doctor: Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor .com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Q1

Fact Query: What is β-thalassemia major and what is the facial characteristic associated with it?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia major is a specific type of β-thalassemia that is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into facial bones, which leads to a "chipmunk facies".

Clinical Question: A 13-year-old girl presents to a medical office for the evaluation of a lump on the front of her neck. The patient denies pain, but states that the mass bothers her because “it moves when I swallow”. The physical examination reveals a midline neck mass that is above the hyoid bone but below the level of the mandible. The mass is minimally mobile and feels fluctuant without erythema. The patient is afebrile and all vital signs are stable. A complete blood count and thyroid function tests are performed and are within normal limits. What is the most likely cause of this patient’s presentation?
Correct Diagnosis: Cyst formation in a persistent thyroglossal duct

Patient: My son is 1 yr 8 months old...he is not walking on his own...so dr suggested MRI n MRI report shows .ventricular system appears mildly prominent,normal in shape position and signal morphology,cisternal and sulcal spaces are mildly prominent,small faint hyperintense areas noted in bilateral periventricular frontal and Pareto occipital regions.rests things are normal....pls tell me wat does it means
Doctor: Hi...though I do not have the images of the MRI before me right now, by what you quote, I feel it should be - Periventricular Leukoplakia - a condition which occurs in prematurely or underweight born babies. Their mentation and IQ will be perfect, but they will have problems with their legs and walking. Usually there won't be any problem with the hands. This condition is called - Spastic Diplopia and is amenable for physiotherapy. Please do not worry as the kid will get better with physiotherapy. Regards -

Fact Query: What is the mildest form of β-thalassemia and what are the typical symptoms associated with it?
Fact Answer: The mildest form of β-thalassemia is β-thalassemia minor (β/β+), which is typically asymptomatic with an increased RBC count.

Clinical Question: A 35-year-old woman with a history of Crohn disease presents for a follow-up appointment. She says that lately, she has started to notice difficulty walking. She says that some of her friends have joked that she appears to be walking as if she was drunk. Past medical history is significant for Crohn disease diagnosed 2 years ago, managed with natalizumab for the past year because her intestinal symptoms have become severe and unresponsive to other therapies. On physical examination, there is gait and limb ataxia present. Strength is 4/5 in the right upper limb. A T1/T2 MRI of the brain is ordered and is shown. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Progressive multifocal encephalopathy (PML)

Patient: Hi. My 18month old has had red and swollen eyes for about 5 days. I took him to his doctor and they have no idea what is wrong. His eye itself is unaffected. It seems to be isolated to the outside of the eye (eye lid, and beneath. Just last night he broke out in a rash all over his body. I need ANSWERS badly. Can you help?
Doctor: Hello. I'm a pediatrician. From your description I think he might be having present orbital cellulitis. In this condition soft tissue around eye is infected. Baby will be toxic and having high fever. Eyes may be swollen, it massive be difficult to open eye. Rash on rest body might be due to Chat Doctor.  Consult ophthalmologist and pediatrician. If it is really orbital cellulitis then baby might be needing admission

Fact Query: What is the most severe form of β-thalassemia and what are the typical symptoms associated with it?
Fact Answer: The most severe form of β-thalassemia is β-thalassemia major (β0/β0), which typically causes severe anemia a few months after birth.

Clinical Question: A 23-year-old G1 at 10 weeks gestation based on her last menstrual period is brought to the emergency department by her husband due to sudden vaginal bleeding. She says that she has mild lower abdominal cramps and is feeling dizzy and weak. Her blood pressure is 100/60 mm Hg, the pulse is 100/min, and the respiration rate is 15/min. She says that she has had light spotting over the last 3 days, but today the bleeding increased markedly and she also noticed the passage of clots. She says that she has changed three pads since the morning. She has also noticed that the nausea she was experiencing over the past few days has subsided. The physician examines her and notes that the cervical os is open and blood is pooling in the vagina. Products of conception can be visualized in the os. The patient is prepared for a suction curettage. Which of the following is the most likely cause for the pregnancy loss?
Correct Diagnosis: Chromosomal abnormalities

Patient: I fell down three stairs on my buttocks, when I got up I almost passed out I ran to my bed and waited till I felt better. I have been feeling nauseated since then and cant stand for a long period of time without feeling like im going to be sick. It is also painful to sit. Im on blood thinners what should I do?
Doctor: Dear France pain is from muscular strain due to injury. You can take analgesic like ibuprofen or if severe pain take combination of diclofenac+paracetamol+chlorzoxazon/serratiopeptidase with omeprazole/pantoprazole + risperidone to relieve nausea for 2-3 days. This will clear all symptoms. If symptoms are severe consult your family doctor first. Hope this answer will be helpful to you. For more queries please don't hesitate to ask. Get well soon.

Fact Query: What is β-thalassemia intermedia and what is the cause of moderate anemia associated with it?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia intermedia is a form of β-thalassemia that is caused by splicing defects in both β genes, which results in moderate anemia.

Clinical Question: An 8-month-old boy is brought to a medical office by his mother. The mother states that the boy has been very fussy and has not been feeding recently. The mother thinks the baby has been gaining weight despite not feeding well. The boy was delivered vaginally at 39 weeks gestation without complications. On physical examination, the boy is noted to be crying in his mother’s arms. There is no evidence of cyanosis, and the cardiac examination is within normal limits. The crying intensifies when the abdomen is palpated. The abdomen is distended with tympany in the left lower quadrant. You suspect a condition caused by the failure of specialized cells to migrate. What is the most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Hirschsprung disease

Patient: Do you take multiple chemical sensitivities seriously and understand how debilitating fragrance chemicals are? Do you think there is always an under-lying cause for scent sensitivity/allergy (yes, I have allergic reactions to dryer sheets like Bounce and Scent Boosters)ie rash hot prickly skin, swelling of tongue, extreme thirst... do you think (my) immune system was already compromised or do you think the neurotoxic petro chemicals in fragrance products alone can cut a person s life down to the knees overnight?
Doctor: It's a very good question and thousands of people who read it, I fact, can reap the benefits out of suggestions given herein, based on the principles of Ayurveda - the nascent science of life.First there is a principle cited in Ayurveda about how to prevent/ cure a disease. Its NIDAANPARIVARJAN (in Sanskrit language) which literally means avoidance of the cause. Now, in many cases people are not able to change jobs or circumstances are such that they have to remain in such conditions. Here comes the principle of PRAANVAYU (richness of oxygen and fresh air) that is achieved by rhythms of deep breathing exercises called PRAANAYAM. Indias Yoga has spread to the World and people who are aware are enjoying the benefits. It enhances immunity, gives strength to fight allergens and extends life as also betters quality of life. Then there are herbs to naturally support the fight of body against allergens. Simple herbs like Turmeric, Need, Manisha, Gilroy, Quasi (Holy basil) etc. not only counter allergens but detoxifies the blood and also raise natural immunity. The hitch among beginners is its slow pace of action. Yes naturals are slow as compared to man made synthetic and toxic medicines but then what advantage has these fast Chat Doctor.  No doubt modern synthetics have won in emergency situations and saved lives. But lifestyle disorders and the one you are suffering from needs naturals to support you. These do not have side effects, no interaction with

Fact Query: What is the result of β-thalassemia mutations in β-globin genes and how do these mutations affect the production of the β-globin chain?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia mutations in β-globin genes result in absent (β0) or diminished (β+) production of the β-globin chain.

Clinical Question: A 60-year-old man seeks evaluation at a medical office due to leg pain while walking. He says the pain starts in his buttocks and extends to his thighs and down to his calves. Previously, the pain resolved with rest, but the pain now persists in his feet, even during rest. His past medical history is significant for diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and cigarette smoking. The vital signs are within normal limits. The physical examination shows an atrophied leg with bilateral loss of hair. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient’s condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Narrowing and calcification of vessels

Patient: dear doctor, in hot and humid weather my 5 year old get some sort of pimples here and there on her body....i hv put her on homeopathy and also put spirit on it which prevents pimple from growing further....shown her to her paeditrician who saying she just has sensitive skin and hasnt given her medicine...homeopathy is specifically for staphlococci bacteria.....doctor feels i dnt need a blood test....will the problem go away in a few days with homeopathy and spirit application...i worry abt extreme situations like bacteia contaminating blood etc....am i just overdoing it as she absolutely fine and no fever or discomfort....she tuchwud fine and just sweats a lot due to humidity.....pl tell is this common in kids and any cause to worry...hope nothing infects blood as no major medication gvn by doctor
Doctor: Hi, Is she having fever? How are the lesions-itchy / fluid filled / pus filled? It was helpful if you can send us a picture. In hot and humid climate, most likely this is Emilia- small pimples over the skin due to clogging and blockage of sweat glands. In absence of secondary infection (painful / edematous / pus filled), this does not require any specific treatment other than avoiding direct sunlight and keeping the skin cool with wet moping 3-4 times a day(apart from routine bath). If itchy, I used to give calamine lotion and antihistamine like levocetirizine for few days. In short, if she is not febrile and the lesions are not with surrounding edema / pain / tenderness / pus filled-this does not indicate bacterial infection-hence no need of antibiotics and no chance of blood contamination. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Fact Query: What is the impact of β-thalassemia mutations on the production of the β-globin chain in β-globin genes?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia mutations in β-globin genes result in absent (β0) or diminished (β+) production of the β-globin chain.

Clinical Question: A 52-year-old man presents to the emergency department with chest pain radiating to his left jaw and arm. He states that he had experienced similar symptoms when playing basketball. The medical history is significant for diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and GERD, for which he takes metformin, hydrochlorothiazide, and pantoprazole, respectively. The blood pressure is 150/90 mm Hg, the pulse is 100/min, and the respirations are 15/min. The ECG reveals ST elevation in leads V3-V6. He is hospitalized for an acute MI and started on treatment. The next day he complains of dizziness and blurred vision. Repeat vital signs were as follows: blood pressure 90/60 mm Hg, pulse 72/min, and respirations 12/min. The laboratory results were as follows:
Serum chemistry
Sodium 143 mEq/L
Potassium 4.1 mEq/L
Chloride 98 mEq/L
Bicarbonate 22 mEq/L
Blood urea nitrogen  26 mg/dL
Creatinine 2.3 mg/dL
Glucose 120 mg/dL
Which of the following drugs is responsible for this patient’s lab abnormalities?
Correct Diagnosis: Lisinopril

Patient: Hello its since 11 days that we had unprotected sex on 7 may though I ejaculated outside bt m feeling tensed about this. Her last period was on 22nd April. She had vomited in these days though it had stopped now. Am very tensed and shes also. What should we do.? Can we avail pregnancy urine test at home now. Its 18 may today n she normally mensturates at 26 days interval......help us.
Doctor: Hello, thanks for writing in. I understand your anxiety. The pull-out method is not 100% foolproof. If your partner has a 26-day cycle, it means she would be due around the 18th. A delay does not always mean a pregnancy, it can also be due to the mental anxiety, illness etc. She can test for a pregnancy using a home pregnancy kit about 4-5 days after the date of the missed period (assuming she has regular cycles). Ask her to use a morning sample preferably. If there is a doubt, better do a pelvic ultrasound the week after. Do not worry, seek a gynecologist opinion in case it is positive. All the best.

Fact Query: What is anisopoikilocytosis and how is it related to β-thalassemia major?
Fact Answer: Anisopoikilocytosis refers to the presence of abnormally shaped and unequally sized RBCs on blood smear, and it may be increased in individuals with β-thalassemia major.

Clinical Question: A 28-year-old woman is brought to the hospital by her boyfriend. She has had three days of fever and headache followed by one day of worsening confusion and hallucinations. She also becomes agitated when offered water. Her temperature is 101°F (38.3°C). Two months prior to presentation, the couple was camping and encountered bats in their cabin. In addition to an injection shortly after exposure, what would have been the most effective treatment for this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: A killed vaccine within ten days of exposure

Patient: My son had fits in his sleep at early morning for the first time. He is 8 years 5 months old. Fits was around 3 minutes and he went to unconsious later for another 2 to 3 minutes. When he got conscious he does not remember any. He was having veeze problems from few days and was on medication. We checked in the family and cleared not a heridity issue. I am very concerned and seeking your help to understand the situation.
Doctor: Hi...by what you quote this seems to be a type of seizure called complex partial seizure (CPS) or generalized tonic-clonic seizures. This is not related to wheeze or its related medications. As it has occurred for the first time, without anybody in the family having it, he definitely needs evaluation. He will need a basic blood work up and EEG and MRI brain. Nothing to worry, if he is stable now. The tests will throw light upon the probable cause and then the doctors will be in a better to counsel you on further proceedings and prognosis. Regards -

Fact Query: What is the association between β-thalassemia major and nucleated RBCs on blood smear?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia major may be associated with nucleated RBCs on blood smear.

Clinical Question: A 60-year-old man comes to the physician for an examination prior to a scheduled cholecystectomy. He has hypertension treated with hydrochlorothiazide. His mother had chronic granulomatous disease of the lung. He works in a glass manufacturing plant. He has smoked two packs of cigarettes daily for 38 years. His vital signs are within normal limits. Examination shows no abnormalities. Laboratory studies are within the reference range. An x-ray of the chest is shown. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Correct Diagnosis: Request previous chest x-ray

Patient: My dog bit my 12 years old son. He had his 0 and 3 days shots he just need to come back for the seventh day does he needs to finish all his shots? And my dog doesnt have a rabis shot yet on he day he bit my son because his only 2 months and 3 weeks but a week later we let him have his rabis shot what are the signs I need to look for my dog and how long do I need to observe the dog
Doctor: Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor Forum. I have gone through your Query & I really appreciate your concern about the problem you are facing. As a physician I would like to tell you that you need to observe your dog till15-20 days. Also, your son needs to take 3rd shot, i.e., of 7th day. Also, you did the right thing by vaccinating our dog. So you need not worry about anything. Thanks for Trusting & Posting your Query on this forum. Hope this will help you. Feel free to ask any further question. Have a nice Day. Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What is extramedullary hematopoiesis and how is it related to β-thalassemia major?
Fact Answer: Extramedullary hematopoiesis is the production of blood cells outside of the bone marrow, and it may be observed in individuals with β-thalassemia major as an enlargement of the liver and spleen during abdominal physical exam.

Clinical Question: You are examining a 3-day-old newborn who was delivered vaginally without any complications. The newborn presents with vomiting, hyperventilation, lethargy, and seizures. Blood work demonstrates hyperammonemia, elevated glutamine levels, and decreased blood urea nitrogen. A CT scan demonstrates cerebral edema. Defects in which of the following enzymes would result in a clinical presentation similar to this infant?
Correct Diagnosis: Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I

Patient: Hi, i ve been on the Noriday pill for 10 months now (i was on the Depo Injection prior to it), i started having heavy periods at the start of December and i m on my fourth period now. Is this normal for this pill? The reason i went on this particular one was because it was similiar to the Depo Injection. I didnt get any periods with the Depo.
Doctor: Hi, Thanks for the query. Holiday pill is a mini pill containing progesterone. During the usage of contraceptive pills some amount of irregularity in menstrual flow is common. If you are having heavy bleeding, you can take symptomatic treatment for that and can continue the pills. If same problem repeats frequently better to think of changing the contraceptive method. You discuss this with your doctor and proceed according to her advice. Take care.

Fact Query: What are the common genetic mutations associated with β-thalassemia?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia is often due to mutations in splice sites and promoter sequences.

Clinical Question: A 48-year-old man with HIV comes to the physician because of skin lesions over his face and neck for 2 weeks. They are not itchy or painful. He does not have fever or a sore throat. He was treated for candidal esophagitis 3 months ago. He is sexually active with his wife, who knows of his condition, and uses condoms consistently. He is currently receiving triple antiretroviral therapy with lamivudine, abacavir, and efavirenz. He is 175 cm (5 ft 9 in) tall and weighs 58 kg (128 lb); BMI is 18.8 kg/m2. Examination shows multiple skin colored papules over his face and neck with a dimpled center. Cervical lymphadenopathy is present. The remainder of the examination is unremarkable. His hemoglobin concentration is 12.1 g/dL, leukocyte count is 4,900/mm3, and platelet count is 143,000/mm3; serum studies and urinalysis show no abnormalities. CD4+ T-lymphocyte count is 312/mm3 (normal ≥ 500). Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's findings?
Correct Diagnosis: Poxvirus

Patient: my father is diagnosed with kidney cancer in july last yr, he got his left kidneyremoved and was given target therapy starting from nexavar .after 6 months PAT scan showed slight increase in disease and was put onsecond med which further detiorated the condition .....causing utter weakness as a result med was discontinuedfor a week which further worsened the condition .....again fluid in lungs and now speech is also not clear ....brain CT was done n some cells were found.....as a result radiation therapy was given for 10 days ....it gave positive results along with med VOTRIENT....everything remained fine for a month but today he had a fit type condition and lost his speech for sometime so Doc pls guide what next PAT SCAN is due in june first week.
Doctor: Dear Mr. seigneur, I am sorry to convey you that your father has entered a very advanced stage of the disease. He is resistant to all forms of therapy now and is also intolerant to other active treatment. Please give him only palliative management to comfort him. No active treatment is advocated. Please consult your primary physician who will guide you for this form of terminal care and comfort. Truly,

Fact Query: What are some common mutations associated with β-thalassemia?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia is often due to mutations in splice sites and promoter sequences.

Clinical Question: A 55-year-old man comes to the physician because of fatigue and worsening abdominal pain for 4 weeks. He also reports excessive night sweats and a 5.4-kg (12-lb) weight loss during this time. He has a neck swelling for 4 days. Physical examination shows a nontender, enlarged, and fixed supraclavicular lymph node. There is splenomegaly. A CT scan of the thorax and abdomen shows massively enlarged axillary, mediastinal, and cervical lymph nodes. Analysis of an excised cervical lymph node shows lymphocytes with a high proliferative index that stain positive for CD20. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma

Patient: I fell over at work 3 weeks ago and hit the bottom of my back on a wooden floor and I have been in so much pain since, I was signed off work for 2 weeks by a doctor and just got back into work and it has made it worse, I can barely walk now and my back keeps seizing up. what should I do?
Doctor: HiT hank you for asking ChatDoctorIf you having pain after 3 weeks of fall an injury like fracture should be ruled out. A x-ray should be taken according to the point of tenderness. If wide pain is there I recommend taking a pelvis and Lumbosacral spine x-ray. If no fracture is then it can be due to strain or sprain. In such case I advise muscle relaxants like thiocolchicoside NSAIDs like diclofenac and neurotrophic Chat Doctor. I also recommend doing warm compress on back. Hope this may help you. Let me know if you have any further query.

Fact Query: In which populations is β-thalassemia most commonly seen?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia is most commonly seen in individuals of African or Mediterranean descent.

Clinical Question: A 26-year-old G1P0 woman at 32-weeks gestation presents for follow-up ultrasound. She was diagnosed with gestational diabetes during her second trimester, but admits to poor glucose control and non-adherence to insulin therapy. Fetal ultrasound reveals an asymmetric, enlarged interventricular septum, left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, and significantly reduced ejection fraction. Which of the following is the most appropriate step in management after delivery?
Correct Diagnosis: Medical management

Patient: Hi, I have a bump on the top of my helix where usually a piercing would be, but i never had a piercing before, just informing you where this bump is. It looks like a blister, but it doesn t hurt. I don t know how long it s been there. If you could please tell me what it might be that would be great! Thank You.
Doctor: Hi, Dear,Welcome with your query to Chat Doctor. Studied your query in full depth of its details. Reviewed it in context of your health concerns. Based On the facts, Dear, you need to consult Surgeon for checking other causes of such a lump. But I would alert you to rule out TB with Erythema Nodes which may be missed as a cause of such a lump on the helix. Fibro-chon Chat Doctor. This reply would help you to plan further treatment soon with your treating doctors. Best of Luck and early recovery. Welcome any further query in this regard, which would be replied in next session. Good Day!!

Fact Query: Which populations are most commonly affected by β-thalassemia?
Fact Answer: β-thalassemia is most commonly seen in individuals of African or Mediterranean descent.

Clinical Question: A recent study attempted to analyze whether increased "patient satisfaction" driven healthcare resulted in increased hospitalization. In this hospital, several of the wards adopted new aspects of "patient satisfaction" driven healthcare, whereas the remainder of the hospital continued to use existing protocols. Baseline population characteristics and demographics were collected at the start of the study. At the end of the following year, hospital use was assessed and compared between the two groups. Which of the following best describes this type of study?
Correct Diagnosis: Prospective cohort

Patient: At lest once or twice a week my arms chest feel hot and tingling ...times I get just swollen arms and tingling on one side of my face....what causes this ..thanks....I have been on depression medication and blood pressure meds..Never been sick ....used to workout but I am a product of the recession so stress is a big part of my lifethanks
Doctor: Hello, welcome to Chat Doctor. Your symptoms are related to stress and depression. Depression can manifest not only with psychological symptoms but with a variety of physical symptoms also like

Fact Query: What is the association between β-myosin heavy-chain (sarcomere) defect and a medical condition?
Fact Answer: β-myosin heavy-chain (sarcomere) defect is associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Clinical Question: A new screening test utilizing a telemedicine approach to diagnosing diabetic retinopathy has been implemented in a diabetes clinic. An ophthalmologist’s exam was also performed on all patients as the gold standard for diagnosis. In a pilot study of 500 patients, the screening test detected the presence of diabetic retinopathy in 250 patients. Ophthalmologist exam confirmed a diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy in 200 patients who tested positive in the screening test, as well as 10 patients who tested negative in the screening test. What is the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of the screening test?
Correct Diagnosis: Sensitivity = 95%, Specificity = 83%, PPV = 80%, NPV = 96%

Patient: Hi i am suffering from ring worm on wrist, ankle, groin infection from last 8 months now and had taken medices like TerbestGrisODKenz LevosisAF 150 and used external creams like Cansten SBrutnaskin BMSercos..every tablet has temporary effect one i stop it come back again ....pls help
Doctor: Thanks for asking in Chat Doctor Forum In Short

Fact Query: How do β-lactams such as penicillin and cephalosporins work in inhibiting bacterial growth?
Fact Answer: β-lactams such as penicillin and cephalosporins work by halting peptidoglycan synthesis via inhibition of penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) transpeptidase activity.

Clinical Question: A healthy 22-year-old male participates in a research study you are leading to compare the properties of skeletal and cardiac muscle. You conduct a 3-phased experiment with the participant. In the first phase, you get him to lift up a 2.3 kg (5 lb) weight off a table with his left hand. In the second phase, you get him to do 20 burpees, taking his heart rate to 150/min. In the third phase, you electrically stimulate his gastrocnemius with a frequency of 50 Hz. You are interested in the tension and electrical activity of specific muscles as follows: Biceps in phase 1, cardiac muscle in phase 2, and gastrocnemius in phase 3. What would you expect to be happening in the phases and the respective muscles of interest?
Correct Diagnosis: Increase of tension in all phases

Patient: My baby is 3 month old. She cannot sleep at night.she feels sleepy, so when she is on our lap she is sleeping ,,but when we are trying to put her down in bed , she wakes up.,please let me know the solution of this. We have also checked whether her nose are blocked or not . But she is not having blocked nose.
Doctor: DearWelcome to ChatDoctorWe understand your concerns went through your details. 3 year child only understands security and care. She clings to anything that provides security and care. Naturally, she is clinging to you. Let her do it. While putting her down, you also lie down with her. Nursing habit also can be imparted while laying down. Such a change of habit, will change her way of looking at security and care. These are related to training. You need to use alternate techniques of training. If you require more of my help in this aspect, please use this URL. http

Fact Query: How do β-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin and cephalosporins, work to combat bacterial infections?
Fact Answer: β-lactam antibiotics work by halting peptidoglycan synthesis via inhibition of penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) transpeptidase activity.

Clinical Question: A 20-year-old male comes into your office two days after falling during a pick up basketball game. The patient states that the lateral aspect of his knee collided with another player's knee. On exam, the patient's right knee appears the same size as his left knee without any swelling or effusion. The patient has intact sensation and strength in both lower extremities. The patient's right knee has no laxity upon varus stress test, but is more lax upon valgus stress test when compared to his left knee. Lachman's test and posterior drawer test both have firm endpoints without laxity. Which of the following structures has this patient injured?
Correct Diagnosis: Medial collateral ligament

Patient: hi doc.. my child is 4 1/2 yr old boy, past 15 days his poops are little abnormal, just after eating or drinking milk he is passing his stools, normally he goes only once or max twice a day, but now he goes around 4-5 times a day, he happened to eat uncooked chicken when he was on vaccation, day next there is this abnormal change and bad smell coming through his mouth. when consulted pediatric, he gave cepodom 100 mg for 5 days, but still the problem continues and today my child happened to vomit this evening. pl suggest as what to do.
Doctor: Hi... Thank you for consulting in Chat Doctor. What your kid is having is not a diarrhea and is only a gastronomic reflux. It is quite common for kids to pass small amount of diarrhea or loose stools soon after feeds. This need not be treated as diarrhea and especially antibiotics are not indicated. When the kid takes feeds, the stomach expands - then when it is contracting it sets off a wave form which moves down the intestines and when that wave reaches the lower down rectum, a small quantity of the stool is evacuated out. This is the basis for gastronomic reflex. Do not worry. Unless the kids having low urine output or very dull or excessively sleepy or blood in motion or green bilious vomiting...you need not worry. Regards -

Fact Query: What is the origin of the genes responsible for synthesizing β-lactamases?
Fact Answer: β-lactamases are synthesized by plasmid genes.

Clinical Question: A 4-year-old boy is brought to the physician because of swelling around his eyes for 4 days. The swelling is most severe in the morning and milder by bedtime. Ten days ago, he had a sore throat that resolved spontaneously. His temperature is 37°C (98.6°F), pulse is 103/min, and blood pressure is 88/52 mm Hg. Examination shows 3+ pitting edema of the lower extremities and periorbital edema. The remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. Laboratory studies show:
Hemoglobin 15.3 g/dL
Leukocyte count 10,500/mm3
Platelet count 480,000/mm3
Serum
Urea nitrogen 36 mg/dL
Glucose 67 mg/dL
Creatinine 0.8 mg/dL
Albumin 2.6 mg/dL
Urine
Blood negative
Glucose negative
Protein 4+
RBC none
WBC 0–1/hpf
Fatty casts numerous
Protein/creatinine ratio 6.8 (N ≤0.2)
Serum complement concentrations are within the reference ranges. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?"
Correct Diagnosis: Prednisone therapy

Patient: Hi. I have a history of kidney stones and I recently just passed another stone back in December. I woke up today, though, in terrible pain. I feel like Im going to vomit, like something tight is gagging me around my neck. Im very hot. There is blood in my stool and I dont think Im going to leave the bathroom any time soon. Could this be another kidney stone? Or is the blood in my stool from something else? Your response is very important to me. Please and thank you!
Doctor: Hi, Renal calculus when passes through ureteric wall it irritates it n have severe pain in flank which can radiate to groin thigh umbilicus scrotum /labia major associated with nausea vomiting and other urinary symptoms including hematuria. It never causes blood in stool which can be due to pathology in GIT.  So visit a gastrosurgeon for bleeding PR and Urologist for your Renal calculus. Hope this ll help Thanks n regards

Fact Query: What type of genes express β-lactamases?
Fact Answer: Plasmid genes express β-lactamases.

Clinical Question: An 18-year-old man comes to the clinic with his mom for “pins and needles” of both of his arms. He denies any past medical history besides a recent anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear that was repaired 1 week ago. The patient reports that the paresthesias are mostly located along the posterior forearms, left more than the right. What physical examination finding would you expect from this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Loss of wrist extension

Patient: I feel as though there is a liquid near the surface of my upper left chest muscle near the arm pit that burns when I lean foreword in a standing position. The burn is very intense like a white hot iron is slouching in that area. just started 4 hours ago and is increasing in area. feels liquid in nature, but i feel no bump and it may be inside rib at that location? do not feel it by putting finger pressure in general area.
Doctor: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your situation and problem. In my opinion you should first get done 1. Chest x-ray 2.  Ultrasound examination of local part. Lung infection or skin infection (left upper chest area) can cause symptoms of burning and fluid sensation. If both these are normal then no need to worry about major diseases. Also get done vitamin B 12 level, hemoglobin estimation as b 12 deficiency and anemia can give rise to similar sensation. If any of these are deficient then you need supplements. Don't worry, you will be alright.

Fact Query: In which type of bacteria are β-lactamase enzymes typically found in the periplasm?
Fact Answer: β-lactamase enzymes are found in the periplasm of gram negative bacteria.

Clinical Question: A 9-year-old girl is resuscitated after the administration of an erroneous dose of intravenous phenytoin for recurrent seizures. This incident is reported to the authorities. A thorough investigation reveals various causative factors leading to the event. One important finding is a verbal misunderstanding of the dose of phenytoin between the ordering senior resident and the receiving first-year resident during the handover of the patient. To minimize the risk of this particular error in the future, the most appropriate management is to implement which of the following?
Correct Diagnosis: Closed-loop communication

Patient: I have noticed that I ve been getting these sore reddish spots with a white ring around them on my tounge.the spot on my tounge is reddish with a white ring around it and the other 3 are bigger patches on the back of my tounge but there not red,they do have a white ring around them nd they look as if I been eating to much sour stuff which I have not.the only one that is slightly painful is the reddish one on the tip of my tounge,what could this be and should I be worried? They come and go
Doctor: Hello there, You may have a manifestation of a micronutrient deficiency. You should have a multivitamin once a day for the next 1 week preferably one with vitamin b-12(cyanocobalamine) and then assess whether your spots go down. If they don't the pleasing visit a doctor who would do tests to evaluate any underlying deficiency. Also adding probiotics to your diet like yogurt would help. Thank you for your query, Chat Doctor.

Fact Query: What is the family of enzymes involved in cell wall synthesis that β-lactam antibiotics inhibit?
Fact Answer: Penicillin binding protein transpeptidases.

Clinical Question: You are the team physician for an NBA basketball team. On the morning of an important playoff game, an EKG of a star player, Mr. P, shows findings suspicious for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). Mr. P is an otherwise healthy, fit, professional athlete.

The playoff game that night is the most important of Mr. P's career. When you inform the coach that you are thinking of restricting Mr. P's participation, he threatens to fire you. Later that day you receive a phone call from the owner of the team threatening a lawsuit should you restrict Mr. P's ability to play. Mr. P states that he will be playing in the game "if it's the last thing I do."

Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
Correct Diagnosis: Educate Mr. P about the risks of HCM

Patient: Hello Sir, I have skin allergy to avoid itching i have to take cetrizine alternate day.because cetrize i feel sleepy and cozy , is there any treatment for this permanently. Please advice i am facing this problem for last 5 years i am 32 years old man.
Doctor: Hi, thanks for using Chat Doctor The only cure for the allergy would be to avoid the source if it is known. There are allergy tests that can be done to determine the source of the response. These can be in the form of blood tests or skin tests. If the source is not known, or you cannot avoid it then the allergy would continue, and would need to continue the antihistamines. Though cetirizine is non Chat Doctor.  You may want to try other non

Fact Query: What is the effect of β-lactam antibiotics on bacteria?
Fact Answer: β-lactam antibiotics are bacteriocidal.

Clinical Question: A 37-year-old woman presents to the emergency department complaining of generalized malaise, weakness, headache, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea; she last felt well roughly two days ago. She is otherwise healthy, and takes no medications. Her vital signs are: T 38.0, HR 96 beats per minute, BP 110/73, and O2 sat 96% on room air. Examination reveals a somewhat ill-appearing woman; she is drowsy but arousable and has no focal neurological deficits. Initial laboratory studies are notable for hematocrit 26%, platelets of 80,000/mL, and serum creatinine of 1.5 mg/dL. Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment at this time?
Correct Diagnosis: Plasma exchange therapy

Fact Query: How do β-blockers affect the production of renin?
Fact Answer: β-blockers inhibit production of renin.

Clinical Question: A 5-week-old infant born at 36 weeks' gestation is brought to the physician for a well-child examination. Her mother reports that she previously breastfed her for 15 minutes every 2 hours but now feeds her for 40 minutes every 4 hours. The infant has six wet diapers and two stools daily. She currently weighs 3500 g (7.7 lb) and is 52 cm (20.4 in) in length. Vital signs are with normal limits. Cardiopulmonary examination shows a grade 4/6 continuous murmur heard best at the left infraclavicular area. After confirming the diagnosis via echocardiography, which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Indomethacin infusion

Fact Query: What is the effect of β-blockers on cardiac contractility?
Fact Answer: β-blockers decrease cardiac contractility.

Clinical Question: A 51-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 1-day history of right flank pain and bloody urine. Over the past 2 weeks, she has also developed progressive lower extremity swelling and a 3-kg (7-lb) weight gain. She has a history of chronic hepatitis B infection, which was diagnosed 10 years ago. She frequently flies from California to New York for business. She appears fatigued. Her pulse is 98/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 135/75 mm Hg. Examination shows periorbital edema, a distended abdomen, and 2+ edema of the lower extremities. The lungs are clear to auscultation. A CT scan of the abdomen shows a nodular liver with ascites, a large right kidney with abundant collateral vessels, and a filling defect in the right renal vein. Urinalysis shows 4+ protein, positive glucose, and fatty casts. Which of the following is the most likely underlying cause of this patient's renal vein findings?
Correct Diagnosis: Loss of antithrombin III

Fact Query: How do β-blockers treat angina?
Fact Answer: β-blockers treat angina by reducing HR and contractility, thus decreasing myocardial O2 demand.

Clinical Question: A 57-year-old man comes to the physician for a follow-up evaluation of chronic, retrosternal chest pain. The pain is worse at night and after heavy meals. He has taken oral pantoprazole for several months without any relief of his symptoms. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy shows ulcerations in the distal esophagus and a proximally dislocated Z-line. A biopsy of the distal esophagus shows columnar epithelium with goblet cells. Which of the following microscopic findings underlie the same pathomechanism as the cellular changes seen in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Squamous epithelium in the bladder

Fact Query: How do β-blockers reduce cardiac remodeling?
Fact Answer: β-blockers reduce cardiac remodeling by protecting the heart from excess circulating catecholamines.

Clinical Question: A 37-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 6-month history of weight loss, bloating, and diarrhea. She does not smoke or drink alcohol. Her vital signs are within normal limits. She is 173 cm (5 ft 8 in) tall and weighs 54 kg (120 lb); BMI is 18 kg/m2. Physical examination shows bilateral white spots on the temporal half of the conjunctiva, dry skin, and a hard neck mass in the anterior midline that does not move with swallowing. Urinalysis after a D-xylose meal shows an increase in renal D-xylose excretion. Which of the following is most likely to have prevented this patient's weight loss?
Correct Diagnosis: Pancreatic enzyme replacement

Fact Query: What are the cautionary considerations and contraindications for the use of β-blockers?
Fact Answer: β-blockers must be used cautiously in decompensated heart failure and are contraindicated in cardiogenic shock.

Clinical Question: A 52-year-old man presents for a routine checkup. Past medical history is remarkable for stage 1 systemic hypertension and hepatitis A infection diagnosed 10 years ago. He takes aspirin, rosuvastatin, enalapril daily, and a magnesium supplement every once in a while. He is planning to visit Ecuador for a week-long vacation and is concerned about malaria prophylaxis before his travel. The physician advised taking 1 primaquine pill every day while he is there and for 7 consecutive days after leaving Ecuador. On the third day of his trip, the patient develops an acute onset headache, dizziness, shortness of breath, and fingertips and toes turning blue. His blood pressure is 135/80 mm Hg, heart rate is 94/min, respiratory rate is 22/min, temperature is 36.9℃ (98.4℉), and blood oxygen saturation is 97% in room air. While drawing blood for his laboratory workup, the nurse notes that his blood has a chocolate brown color. Which of the following statements best describes the etiology of this patient’s most likely condition?
Correct Diagnosis: It is a type B adverse drug reaction.

Fact Query: What are the precautions and contraindications for the use of β-blockers?
Fact Answer: β-blockers must be used cautiously in decompensated heart failure and are contraindicated in cardiogenic shock.

Clinical Question: A 31-year-old woman, gravida 2, para 1, at 32 weeks' gestation comes to the emergency department for sudden leakage of clear vaginal fluid. Her pregnancy has been uncomplicated. Her first child was born at term by vaginal delivery. She has no history of serious illness. She does not drink alcohol or smoke cigarettes. Current medications include vitamin supplements. Her temperature is 37.2°C (98.9°F), pulse is 70/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 128/82 mm Hg. Speculum examination demonstrates clear fluid in the cervical canal. The fetal heart rate is reactive at 160/min with no decelerations. Tocometry shows uterine contractions. Nitrazine testing is positive. She is started on indomethacin. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Correct Diagnosis: Administer betamethasone and ampicillin

Fact Query: What effects may β-blockers mask?
Fact Answer: β-blockers may mask the effects of hypoglycemia.

Clinical Question: A 16-year-old girl is brought to the emergency department by her friends who say that she took a whole bottle of her mom’s medication. They do not know which medication it was she ingested. The patient is slipping in and out of consciousness and is unable to offer any history. Her temperature is 39.6°C (103.2°F), the heart rate is 135/min, the blood pressure is 178/98 mm Hg, and the respiratory rate is 16/min. On physical examination, there is significant muscle rigidity without tremor or clonus. Which of the following is the best course of treatment for this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Dantrolene

Fact Query: What are some potential adverse effects of β-blockers, specifically related to the central nervous system?
Fact Answer: β-blockers may have CNS adverse effects, including seizures, sedation, and sleep alterations.

Clinical Question: A 68-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of fever, productive cough, and dyspnea for 3 days. She has had upper back pain for 3 months, which is worse after activity. She takes ibuprofen for pain relief. She has no history of smoking. The temperature is 39.5°C (103.1°F), the blood pressure is 100/70 mm Hg, the pulse is 95/min, and the respirations are 22/min. Lung auscultation shows rales in the left lower lobe area. Painful lymph nodes (1 × 1 cm) are palpated in the left axillary and cervical regions. There is point tenderness along several thoracic vertebrae. Laboratory studies are pending. A skull X-ray and lung window thoracic computed tomography scan are shown. Which of the following disorders most likely played a role in this patient’s acute condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Multiple myeloma

Fact Query: How do β-blockers decrease blood pressure, and what is the mechanism by which they achieve this effect?
Fact Answer: β-blockers may decrease BP by inhibiting β1 receptors of the JGA, thus decreasing renin release.

Clinical Question: A 22-year-old woman presents to the emergency department with a 2-day history of severe blistering. She says that she woke up 2 days ago with a number of painful blisters in her mouth and has since been continuing to develop blisters of her cutaneous skin all over her body and the mucosa of her mouth. She has no past medical history and has never experienced these symptoms before. Physical exam reveals a diffuse vesicular rash with painful, flaccid blisters that separate easily with gentle rubbing. The function of which of the following proteins is most likely disrupted in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Cadherin

Fact Query: What is a potential direct adverse effect of β-blockers?
Fact Answer: β-blockers may cause bradycardia as a direct adverse effect.

Clinical Question: A 3-week-old boy is brought to the emergency department by his parents because of a 3-day history of progressive lethargy and difficulty feeding. He was born at term and did not have difficulty feeding previously. His temperature is 39.4°C (103°F), pulse is 220/min, respirations are 45/min, and blood pressure is 50/30 mm Hg. Pulse oximetry on 100% oxygen shows an oxygen saturation of 97%. Examination shows dry mucous membranes, delayed capillary refill time, and cool skin with poor turgor. Despite multiple attempts by the nursing staff, they are unable to establish peripheral intravenous access. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Correct Diagnosis: Intraosseous cannulation

Fact Query: In what medical conditions should β-blockers be used with caution, as they may cause unopposed α1 agonism if given alone?
Fact Answer: β-blockers may cause unopposed α1 agonism if given alone for cocaine toxicity or pheochromocytoma.

Clinical Question: A previously healthy 10-year-old boy is brought to the emergency room by his mother 5 hours after the onset of abdominal pain and nausea. Over the past 2 weeks, he has also had progressive abdominal pain and a 4-kg (8.8-lb) weight loss. The mother reports that her son has been drinking more water than usual during this period. Last week he wet his bed three times despite being completely toilet-trained since 3 years of age. His temperature is 37.8°C (100°F), pulse is 128/min, respirations are 35/min, and blood pressure is 95/55 mm Hg. He appears lethargic. Physical examination shows deep and labored breathing and dry mucous membranes. The abdomen is soft, and there is diffuse tenderness to palpation with no guarding or rebound. Serum laboratory studies show:
Na+ 133 mEq/L
K+ 5.9 mEq/L
Cl- 95 mEq/L
HCO3- 13 mEq/L
Urea nitrogen 25 mg/dL
Creatinine 1.0 mg/dL
Urine dipstick is positive for ketones and glucose. Further evaluation is most likely to reveal which of the following?"
Correct Diagnosis: Decreased total body potassium

Fact Query: In what situations may β-blockers cause unopposed α1 agonism if given alone?
Fact Answer: β-blockers may cause unopposed α1 agonism if given alone for cocaine toxicity or pheochromocytoma.

Clinical Question: A 70-year-old Caucasian male visits your office regularly for treatment of New York Heart association class IV congestive heart failure. Which of the following medications would you add to this man's drug regimen in order to improve his overall survival?
Correct Diagnosis: Spironolactone

Fact Query: What psychiatric condition can beta-blockers exacerbate?
Fact Answer: Depression.

Clinical Question: Several hours after vaginal delivery, a male newborn delivered at full-term develops tachycardia and tachypnea. His blood pressure is within normal limits. Pulse oximetry on room air shows an oxygen saturation of 79% in the right hand and 61% in the left foot. Physical examination shows bluish discoloration of the face and trunk, supraclavicular and intercostal retractions, and a machine-like murmur over the precordium. Bedside echocardiography shows pulmonary and systemic circulation are in parallel rather than in series. What is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy for this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Alprostadil

Fact Query: What adverse effect can β-blockers cause in men?
Fact Answer: β-blockers can cause impotence in men as an adverse effect.

Clinical Question: A 5-year-old male visits his pediatrician for a check-up. His height corresponds to the 99th percentile for his age, and pubic hair is present upon physical examination. Serum renin and potassium levels are high, as is 17-hydroxyprogesterone. Which of the following is likely deficient in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: 21-hydroxylase

Fact Query: What can β-blockers cause or exacerbate due to excessive AV nodal inhibition?
Fact Answer: β-blockers can cause or exacerbate heart block due to excessive AV nodal inhibition.

Clinical Question: A 41-year-old African American woman presents with her husband to her primary care doctor for evaluation of depression and anxiety. She reports a 2-week history of rapid onset sadness with no clear inciting factor. She is accompanied by her husband who notes that she has had at least three similar episodes that have occurred over the past two years. He also notes that she has been “more emotional” lately and seems confused throughout the day. She has had to leave her job as a librarian at her child’s elementary school. Her past medical history is notable for two diagnostic laparoscopies for recurrent episodes of abdominal pain of unknown etiology. Her family history is notable for psychosis in her mother and maternal grandfather. Her temperature is 99°F (37.2°C), blood pressure is 125/75 mmHg, pulse is 75/min, and respirations are 17/min. On exam, she is disheveled and appears confused and disoriented. Her attention span is limited and she exhibits emotional lability. This patient’s condition is most likely due to a defect in an enzyme that metabolizes which of the following compounds?
Correct Diagnosis: Porphobilinogen

Fact Query: In which medical condition are β-blockers useful in treatment, and in which patient populations are they particularly effective?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are useful in the treatment of hypertension, and are particularly effective in patients with heart failure or post-MI.

Clinical Question: A 32-year-old woman presents to her primary care physician for a general wellness appointment. The patient has no complaints currently and just wants to be sure that she is in good health. The patient has a past medical history of asthma, hypertension, and anxiety. Her current medications include albuterol, fluticasone, hydrochlorothiazide, lisinopril, and fexofenadine. Her temperature is 99.5°F (37.5°C), blood pressure is 165/95 mmHg, pulse is 70/min, respirations are 15/min, and oxygen saturation is 98% on room air. On exam, you note a healthy young woman with a lean habitus. Cardiac exam reveals a S1 and S2 heart sound with a normal rate. Pulmonary exam is clear to auscultation bilaterally with good air movement. Abdominal exam reveals a bruit, normoactive bowel sounds, and an audible borborygmus. Neurological exam reveals cranial nerves II-XII as grossly intact with normal strength and reflexes in the upper and lower extremities. Which of the following is the best next step in management?
Correct Diagnosis: Ultrasound with doppler

Fact Query: How can β-blockers be used in the prophylactic management of variceal bleeding, and what is the mechanism by which they achieve this effect?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are useful in the prophylactic management of variceal bleeding by decreasing the hepatic venous pressure gradient and portal hypertension.

Clinical Question: A 46-year-old man comes to the emergency department because of a 10-day history of right upper quadrant abdominal pain. He has also been feeling tired and nauseous for the past 6 weeks. On examination, scleral icterus is present. Abdominal examination shows tenderness to palpation in the right upper quadrant. The liver edge is palpated 2 cm below the right costal margin. Laboratory studies show:
Aspartate aminotransferase 1780 U/L
Alanine aminotransferase 2520 U/L
Hepatitis A IgM antibody Negative
Hepatitis B surface antigen Negative
Hepatitis B surface antibody Negative
Hepatitis B core IgM antibody Positive
Hepatitis C antibody Positive
Hepatitis C RNA Negative
Which of the following is the best course of action for this patient?"
Correct Diagnosis: Supportive therapy

Fact Query: How do β-blockers aid in the prophylactic management of variceal bleeding?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are useful in the prophylactic management of variceal bleeding by decreasing the hepatic venous pressure gradient and portal hypertension.

Clinical Question: A 5-year-old boy who recently emigrated from Nigeria is brought to the emergency department because of a 2-day history of lower leg weakness, swallowing difficulty, and drooling of saliva. He has not yet received any childhood vaccinations. Two days after admission, the patient develops shortness of breath. Pulse oximetry shows an oxygen saturation of 64%. Despite resuscitative efforts, the patient dies of respiratory failure. At autopsy, examination of the spinal cord shows destruction of the anterior horn cells. Neurological examination of this patient would have most likely shown which of the following findings?
Correct Diagnosis: Hyporeflexia

Fact Query: What are the two types of cardiomyopathy that β-blockers are useful in managing?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are useful in the management of hypertrophic obstructive and dilated cardiomyopathy.

Clinical Question: A 30-year-old woman is brought to the urgent care clinic by her husband. She complains of numbness around her lips and a tingling sensation in her hands and feet. She underwent near-total thyroidectomy for an enlarged thyroid gland a month ago. Vital signs include: blood pressure is 130/70 mm Hg, pulse is 72/min, respiratory rate is 16/min, and temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F). A surgical incision scar is present in the anterior aspect of the neck. The attending physician inflates the blood pressure cuff above 150 mm Hg and observes the patient a couple of minutes while measuring her blood pressure. The patient develops sudden stiffness and tingling in her hand. Blood test results are as follows:
Hemoglobin (Hb%) 10.2 g/dL
White blood cell count 7000/mm3
Platelet count 160,000/mm3
Calcium, serum (Ca2+) 6.0 mg/dL
Albumin 4 g/dL
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), serum 15 U/L
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), serum 8 U/L
Serum creatinine 0.5 mg/dL
Urea 27 mg/dL
Sodium 137 mEq/L
Potassium 4.5 mEq/L
Magnesium 2.5 mEq/L
Urinalysis shows no white or red blood cells and leukocyte esterase is negative. Which of the following is the next best step in the management of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) level

Fact Query: What are the uses of β-blockers in cardiomyopathy management?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are useful in the management of hypertrophic obstructive and dilated cardiomyopathy.

Clinical Question: A woman with coronary artery disease is starting to go for a walk. As she begins, her heart rate accelerates from a resting pulse of 60 bpm until it reaches a rate of 120 bpm, at which point she begins to feel a tightening in her chest. She stops walking to rest and the tightening resolves. This has been happening to her consistently for the last 6 months. Which of the following is a true statement?
Correct Diagnosis: Increasing the heart rate decreases the relative amount of time spent during diastole

Fact Query: What medical condition can β-blockers be used to manage, and in what context is their use appropriate?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are useful in the management of chronic, stable angina.

Clinical Question: A 22-year-old female presents to her physician for evaluation of a vaginal discharge, itching, and irritation. She recently started a new relationship with her boyfriend, who is her only sexual partner. He does not report any genitourinary symptoms. She takes oral contraceptives and does not use  barrier contraception. The medical history is unremarkable. The vital signs are within normal limits. A gynecologic examination reveals a thin, yellow, frothy vaginal discharge with a musty, unpleasant odor and numerous punctate red maculae on the ectocervix. The remainder of the exam is normal. Which of the following organisms will most likely be revealed on wet mount microscopy?
Correct Diagnosis: Motile round or oval-shaped microorganisms

Fact Query: What conditions can β-Blockers treat by blocking hyperadrenergic symptoms?
Fact Answer: β-Blockers can treat conditions such as Thyrotoxicosis (thyroid storm) by blocking the hyperadrenergic symptoms.

Clinical Question: A 53-year-old woman with hypertension and hyperlipidemia comes to the physician because of generalized reddening of her skin and itching for the past 2 weeks. Her symptoms occur every evening before bedtime and last for about 30 minutes. Three months ago, atorvastatin was stopped after she experienced progressively worsening neck and back pain. Statin therapy was reinitiated at lower doses 3 weeks ago but had to be stopped again after her musculoskeletal symptoms recurred. Her menses occur irregularly at 2–3 month intervals and last for 3–4 days. She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for the past 30 years. Her current medications include lisinopril and niacin. Her brother died of colonic adenocarcinoma, and her father died of small cell lung cancer. She is 169 cm (5 ft 6 in) tall and weighs 83 kg (183 lb); BMI is 29 kg/m2. Her vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows no abnormalities. Serum lipid studies show:
Total cholesterol 247 mg/dL
HDL-cholesterol 39 mg/dL
LDL-cholesterol 172 mg/dL
Triglycerides 152 mg/dL
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?"
Correct Diagnosis: Administer ibuprofen

Fact Query: What are the circumstances in which β-blockers should be avoided as a standard therapy in myocardial infarction?
Fact Answer: β-blockers should be avoided in patients with decompensated CHF or bradycardia as a standard therapy in myocardial infarction.

Clinical Question: Five days after undergoing right knee arthroplasty for osteoarthritis, a 68-year-old man has severe pain in this right knee preventing him from participating in physical therapy. On the third postoperative day when the dressing was changed, the surgical wound appeared to be intact, slightly swollen, and had a clear secretion. He has a history of diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension. Current medications include metformin, enalapril, and simvastatin. His temperature is 37.3°C (99.1°F), pulse is 94/min, and blood pressure is 130/88 mm Hg. His right knee is swollen, erythematous, and tender to palpation. There is pain on movement of the joint. The medial parapatellar skin incision appears superficially opened in its proximal and distal part with yellow-green discharge. There is blackening of the skin on both sides of the incision. Which of the following is the next best step in the management of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Surgical debridement

Fact Query: What medical condition are β-blockers considered a first-line treatment for?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are a first-line treatment for essential tremor.

Clinical Question: A 53-year-old woman comes to the physician in February because of a 1-day history of fever, chills, headache, and dry cough. She also reports malaise and generalized muscle aches. She works as a teacher at a local high school, where there was recently an outbreak of influenza. She has a history of intermittent asthma, for which she takes albuterol as needed. She declined the influenza vaccine offered in the fall because her sister told her that a friend developed a flulike illness after receiving the vaccine. She is worried about possibly becoming ill and cannot afford to miss work. Her temperature is 37.9°C (100.3°F), heart rate is 58/min, and her respirations are 12/min. Physical examination is unremarkable. Her hemoglobin concentration is 14.5 g/dL, leukocyte count is 9,400/mm3, and platelet count is 280,000/mm3. In addition to analgesia, which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Correct Diagnosis: Oseltamivir

Fact Query: What is a first line treatment for essential tremor?
Fact Answer: β-blockers are a first line treatment for essential tremor.

Clinical Question: Red-green color blindness, an X-linked recessive disorder, has an incidence of 1/200 in males in a certain population. What is the probability of a phenotypically normal male and female having a child with red-green color blindness?
Correct Diagnosis: 1/400

Fact Query: What is the suffix that all β-blockers have?
Fact Answer: The suffix that all β-blockers have is "-lol".

Clinical Question: A 45-year-old man is transferred to the intensive care unit from the emergency department for acute respiratory failure. He was rushed to the hospital after developing progressive respiratory distress over the last 24 hours. His medical history is significant for long-standing severe persistent asthma, hypertension, and several bouts of community and hospital-acquired pneumonia. His medications include amlodipine, lisinopril, inhaled fluticasone, salmeterol, and oral prednisone. He is a lifelong non-smoker and drinks alcohol occasionally on the weekends. He works as a sales executive and went to Hawaii a month ago. In the emergency department, he was started on broad-spectrum antibiotics and bronchodilators. His respiratory failure progressively worsens, and on day 2 of admission, he requires mechanical ventilator support. Chest X-ray shows multiple nodules bilaterally in the lower lobes. Flexible bronchoscopy is performed and the bronchoalveolar lavage sample from the medial segment of the right lower lobe shows neutrophils, and the fungal preparation shows Aspergillus fumigatus. A video-assisted thoracoscopy is performed and biopsy from the right lower lobe is taken which shows plugging of the terminal bronchioles with mucus, inflammatory cells, and fungal vascular invasion. Which of the following is the most likely mechanism responsible for the biopsy findings?
Correct Diagnosis: Defects in the immune response

Fact Query: What is the relationship between β-blockers and bradycardia?
Fact Answer: β-blockers can cause bradycardia.

Clinical Question: A 70-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 4-month history of epigastric pain, nausea, and weakness. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 50 years and drinks one alcoholic beverage daily. He appears emaciated. He is 175 cm (5 ft 9 in) tall and weighs 47 kg (103 lb); BMI is 15 kg/m2. He is diagnosed with gastric cancer. Which of the following cytokines is the most likely direct cause of this patient’s examination findings?
Correct Diagnosis: IL-6

Fact Query: How do β-blockers, such as propranolol, affect the conversion of T4 into T3?
Fact Answer: β-blockers (ex propranolol) can block peripheral conversion of T4 into T3 by inhibiting 5'-deiodinase.

Clinical Question: A 40-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 1-week history of fatigue, dark urine, and a feeling of heaviness in her legs. Two weeks ago, she returned from a vacation to Brazil, where she spent most of her days exploring the city of Rio de Janeiro on foot. She also gained 3 kg (7 lb) during her vacation. She has systemic lupus erythematosus. Her only medication is hydroxychloroquine. Her temperature is 37.5°C (99.5°F), pulse is 78/min, and blood pressure is 162/98 mm Hg. Physical examination shows 2+ pretibial edema bilaterally. Urinalysis shows:
Blood 3+
Protein 1+
RBC 6–8/hpf with dysmorphic features
RBC casts numerous
WBC 8/hpf
WBC casts rare
Bacteria negative
Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's leg findings?"
Correct Diagnosis: Salt retention

Fact Query: What are some treatments for β-blocker toxicity?
Fact Answer: Some treatments for β-blocker toxicity include glucagon, saline, and atropine.

Clinical Question: A 67-year-old woman with advanced bladder cancer comes to the physician for a follow-up examination. She is currently undergoing chemotherapy with an agent that forms cross-links between DNA strands. Serum studies show a creatinine concentration of 2.1 mg/dL and a blood urea nitrogen concentration of 30 mg/dL. Urine dipstick of a clean-catch midstream specimen shows 2+ protein and 1+ glucose. Prior to initiation of chemotherapy, her laboratory values were within the reference range. In addition to hydration, administration of which of the following would most likely have prevented this patient's current condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Amifostine

Fact Query: What medical condition is associated with α1-antitrypsin deficiency, and how does it manifest in the lungs?
Fact Answer: α1-antitrypsin deficiency results in panacinar emphysema that is most severe in the lower lobes of the lung.

Clinical Question: A 57-year-old post-menopausal woman comes to the physician because of intermittent, bloody post-coital vaginal discharge for the past month. She does not have pain with intercourse. Eleven years ago, she had LSIL on a routine Pap smear and testing for high-risk HPV strains was positive. Colposcopy showed CIN 1. She has not returned for follow-up Pap smears since then. She is sexually active with her husband only, and they do not use condoms. She has smoked half a pack of cigarettes per day for the past 25 years and does not drink alcohol. On speculum exam, a 1.4 cm, erythematous exophytic mass with ulceration is noted on the posterior wall of the upper third of the vagina. Which of the following is the most probable histopathology of this mass?
Correct Diagnosis: Squamous cell carcinoma

Fact Query: What is α1-antitrypsin deficiency and what causes it?
Fact Answer: α1-antitrypsin deficiency is a condition characterized by low levels or an abnormal form of the protein α1-antitrypsin. It is caused by a mutation in the SERPINA1 gene, which leads to misfolding of the mutated protein.

Clinical Question: Three days after starting a new drug for malaria prophylaxis, a 19-year-old college student comes to the physician because of dark-colored urine and fatigue. He has not had any fever, dysuria, or abdominal pain. He has no history of serious illness. Physical examination shows scleral icterus. Laboratory studies show a hemoglobin of 9.7 g/dL and serum lactate dehydrogenase of 234 U/L. Peripheral blood smear shows poikilocytes with bite-shaped irregularities. Which of the following drugs has the patient most likely been taking?
Correct Diagnosis: Primaquine

Fact Query: What gene mutation causes α1-antitrypsin deficiency and what is the result of this mutation on the protein?
Fact Answer: The SERPINA1 gene mutation causes α1-antitrypsin deficiency and it leads to misfolding of the mutated protein.

Clinical Question: You are reviewing raw data from a research study performed at your medical center examining the effectiveness of a novel AIDS screening examination. The study enrolled 250 patients with confirmed AIDS, and 240 of these patients demonstrated a positive screening examination. The control arm of the study enrolled 250 patients who do not have AIDS, and only 5 of these patients tested positive on the novel screening examination. What is the NPV of this novel test?
Correct Diagnosis: 245 / (245 + 10)

Fact Query: In which populations is α-thalassemia with a trans deletion more prevalent?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia with a trans deletion is more prevalent in African populations.

Clinical Question: A P1G0 diabetic woman is at risk of delivering at 30 weeks gestation. Her obstetrician counsels her that there is a risk the baby could have significant pulmonary distress after it is born. However, she states she will administer a drug to the mother to help prevent this from occurring. By what action will this drug prevent respiratory distress in the premature infant?
Correct Diagnosis: Increasing the secretory product of type II alveolar cells

Fact Query: What type of α-thalassemia is more prevalent in African populations?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia with a trans deletion is more prevalent in African populations.

Clinical Question: A case-control study is conducted to investigate the association between the use of phenytoin during pregnancy in women with epilepsy and the risk for congenital malformations. The odds ratio of congenital malformations in newborns born to women who were undergoing treatment with phenytoin is 1.74 (P = 0.02) compared to newborns of women who were not treated with phenytoin. Which of the following 95% confidence intervals is most likely reported for this association?
Correct Diagnosis: 1.34 to 2.36

Fact Query: What populations is α-thalassemia with a cis deletion more prevalent in?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia with a cis deletion is more prevalent in Asian populations.

Clinical Question: A 5-year-old boy presents with altered mental status and difficulty breathing for the past couple of hours. The patient’s father, a mechanic, says the boy accidentally ingested an unknown amount of radiator fluid. The patient’s vital signs are: temperature 37.1°C (98.8.F), pulse 116/min, blood pressure 98/78 mm Hg, and respiratory rate 42/min. On physical examination, cardiopulmonary auscultation reveals deep, rapid respirations with no wheezing, rhonchi, or crepitations. An ABG reveals the blood pH to be 7.2 with an anion gap of 16 mEq/L. Urinalysis reveals the presence of oxalate crystals. Which of the following is the most appropriate antidote for the poison that this patient has ingested?
Correct Diagnosis: Fomepizole

Fact Query: What type of α-thalassemia deletion is more common in Asian populations?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia with a cis deletion is more prevalent in Asian populations.

Clinical Question: A 45-year-old man with HIV comes to the physician because of multiple lesions on his chest and lower extremities. The lesions have progressively increased in size and are not painful or pruritic. Current medications include abacavir, dolutegravir, and lamivudine. A photograph of the lesions is shown. His CD4+ T-lymphocyte count is 450/mm3 (normal ≥ 500/mm3). A skin biopsy shows multiple spindle-shaped cells and lymphocytic infiltrate. Which of the following is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy?
Correct Diagnosis: Alpha-interferon

Fact Query: What is the characteristic feature of α-thalassemia caused by a three gene deletion?
Fact Answer: The characteristic feature of α-thalassemia caused by a three gene deletion is the formation of β4 tetramers, known as HbH.

Clinical Question: An 18-year-old man presents to the office, complaining of an itchy patch on his torso that appeared one week ago. The patient is on the college wrestling team and is concerned he will not be able to compete if it gets infected. He has no significant medical history, and his vital signs are within normal limits. On examination, there is an erythematous, scaly plaque with central clearing at approximately the level of rib 6 on the left side of his torso. What diagnostic test would be most appropriate at this time?
Correct Diagnosis: KOH preparation

Fact Query: How is α-thalassemia characterized and what is the term used to describe the tetramers formed?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia is characterized by formation of β4 tetramers, and the term used to describe them is HbH. The condition is typically caused by a three gene deletion.

Clinical Question: A 65-year-old man with no significant medical history begins to have memory loss and personality changes. Rapidly, over the next few months his symptoms increase in severity. He experiences a rapid mental deterioration associated with sudden, jerking movements, particularly in response to being startled. He has gait disturbances as well. Eventually, he lapses into a coma and dies approximately ten months after the onset of symptoms. Which of the following would most likely be seen on autopsy of the brain in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: C

Fact Query: What is α-thalassemia and how is it characterized?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia is a genetic disorder characterized by the reduced or absent production of α-globin chains, which causes an imbalance in the production of hemoglobin. α-thalassemia due to a three gene deletion is characterized by the formation of β4 tetramers, known as HbH.

Clinical Question: A 32-year-old woman with type 1 diabetes mellitus is brought to the emergency department by her husband because of a 2-day history of profound fatigue and generalized weakness. One week ago, she increased her basal insulin dose because of inadequate control of her glucose concentrations. Neurologic examination shows hyporeflexia. An ECG shows T-wave flattening and diffuse ST-segment depression. Which of the following changes are most likely to occur in this patient's kidneys?
Correct Diagnosis: Increased activity of H+/K+ antiporter in α-intercalated cells

Fact Query: What is the characteristic tetramer formation and name associated with α-thalassemia caused by a four-gene deletion?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia due to a four gene deletion is characterized by formation of γ4 tetramers, known as Hb Barts.

Clinical Question: A newborn male is evaluated in the hospital nursery 24 hours after birth for cyanosis. The patient was born at 38 weeks gestation to a 36-year-old gravida 3 via cesarean section for fetal distress. The patient’s mother received inconsistent prenatal care, and the delivery was uncomplicated. The patient’s Apgar evaluation was notable for acrocyanosis at both 1 and 5 minutes of life. The patient’s mother denies any family history of congenital heart disease. The patient’s father has a past medical history of hypertension, and one of the patient’s older siblings was recently diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder. The patient’s birth weight was 3180 g (7 lb 0 oz). In the hospital nursery, his temperature is 99.3°F (37.4°C), blood pressure is 66/37 mmHg, pulse is 179/min, and respirations are 42/min. On physical exam, the patient is in moderate distress. He has low-set ears, orbital hypertelorism, and a cleft palate. The patient is centrally cyanotic. A chest CT shows thymic hypoplasia. Echocardiography demonstrates a single vessel emanating from both the right and left ventricle.

This patient should be urgently evaluated for which of the following acute complications?
Correct Diagnosis: Neuromuscular irritability

Fact Query: What type of α-thalassemia deletion leads to the formation of γ4 tetramers, also known as Hb Barts?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia due to a four gene deletion is characterized by formation of γ4 tetramers, known as Hb Barts.

Clinical Question: A 29-year-old woman comes to the physician because of intermittent episodes of sharp chest pain and palpitations. She appears nervous. Her pulse is 115/min and irregularly irregular, and blood pressure is 139/86 mmHg. Examination shows a fine tremor on both hands and digital swelling; the extremities are warm. There is retraction of the right upper eyelid. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Propranolol

Fact Query: What is α-thalassemia and how is it characterized?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia is a condition caused by a deletion of alpha-globin genes, and it is characterized by the formation of gamma4 tetramers, also known as Hb Barts.

Clinical Question: A 23-year-old female is found by her roommate in her dormitory. The patient has a history of Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus and was binge drinking the night prior with friends at a local bar. The patient is brought to the emergency department, where vital signs are as follow: T 97.3 F, HR 119 bpm, BP 110/68 mmHg, RR 24, SpO2 100% on RA. On physical exam, the patient is clammy to touch, mucous membranes are tacky, and she is generally drowsy and disoriented. Finger stick glucose is 342 mg/dL; additional lab work reveals: Na: 146 K: 5.6 Cl: 99 HCO3: 12 BUN: 18 Cr: 0.74. Arterial Blood Gas reveals: pH 7.26, PCO2 21, PO2 102. Which of the following statements is correct regarding this patient's electrolyte and acid/base status?
Correct Diagnosis: The patient has an anion gap metabolic acidosis with decreased total body potassium

Fact Query: How is α-thalassemia characterized and what are γ4 tetramers known as?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia is characterized by a four gene deletion, and it is characterized by the formation of γ4 tetramers, which are known as Hb Barts.

Clinical Question: A 36-year-old man is admitted to the hospital because of a 1-day history of epigastric pain and vomiting. He has had similar episodes of epigastric pain in the past. He drinks 8 oz of vodka daily. Five days after admission, the patient develops aspiration pneumonia and sepsis. Despite appropriate therapy, the patient dies. At autopsy, the pancreas appears gray, enlarged, and nodular. Microscopic examination of the pancreas shows localized deposits of calcium. This finding is most similar to an adaptive change that can occur in which of the following conditions?
Correct Diagnosis: Congenital CMV infection

Fact Query: What is the characteristic of α-thalassemia caused by a four gene deletion and what are the tetramers formed known as?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia caused by a four gene deletion is characterized by formation of γ4 tetramers, known as Hb Barts.

Clinical Question: A 37-year-old patient is being evaluated for involuntary movements, difficulty swallowing food, and personality change. He has entered a clinical trial that is studying the interaction of certain neuromediators in patients with similar (CAG) n trinucleotide repeat disorders. The laboratory results of 1  of the candidates for the clinical trial are presented below:
Acetylcholine ↓
Dopamine ↑
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) ↓
Norepinephrine unchanged
Serotonin unchanged
Which trinucleotide disorder most likely represents the diagnosis of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Huntington's disease

Fact Query: How does α-thalassemia due to a two gene deletion typically manifest?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia due to a two gene deletion typically manifests as mild anemia with an increased RBC count.

Clinical Question: A 65-year-old man with hypertension comes to the physician for a routine health maintenance examination. Current medications include atenolol, lisinopril, and atorvastatin. His pulse is 86/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 145/95 mm Hg. Cardiac examination is shown. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this physical examination finding?
Correct Diagnosis: Decreased compliance of the left ventricle

Fact Query: How does α-thalassemia due to a two gene deletion typically present, and what is the characteristic of the RBC count?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia due to a two gene deletion typically presents with mild anemia and an increased RBC count.

Clinical Question: A 55-year-old man presents to the hospital with chief complaints of unintentional weight loss, anorexia, fever, and sweating. The patient has pleuritic chest pain, progressive dyspnea, and dry cough. There is no history of orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. On examination, the patient is afebrile and pericardial friction rub is noted. ECG shows diffuse ST-segment elevation in V1-V4 along with T wave inversion. Chest X-ray and CT scan show anterior and inferior pericardial eggshell calcification. Echocardiography reveals thickened pericardium and signs of diastolic right ventricular collapse. Pericardial fluid is sent for Ziehl-Neelsen staining to detect acid-fast bacilli. Mycobacterium tuberculosis is detected by PCR. What is the most likely mechanism associated with the patient’s condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Dystrophic calcification

Fact Query: What type of disease and symptom is associated with α-thalassemia due to a three gene deletion?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia due to a three gene deletion presents with HbH disease and severe anemia.

Clinical Question: A 7-month-old infant with Tetralogy of Fallot is brought to the emergency department by her parents because of a 1-day history of fever, cough, and difficulty breathing. She was born at 29 weeks of gestation. Her routine immunizations are up-to-date. She is currently in the 4th percentile for length and 2nd percentile for weight. She appears ill. Her temperature is 39.1°C (102.3°F). Physical examination shows diffuse wheezing, subcostal retractions, and bluish discoloration of the fingertips. Administration of which of the following would most likely have prevented this patient's current condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Palivizumab

Fact Query: What is the outcome of α-thalassemia due to a four gene deletion, and at what stage does it become lethal?
Fact Answer: α-thalassemia due to a four gene deletion causes hydrops fetalis and is lethal in utero.

Clinical Question: A 62-year-old woman has been receiving amoxicillin for acute sinusitis for 12 days. She develops a macular rash on her neck, back, and torso. The amoxicillin is therefore changed to cephalexin for an additional week. The rash resolves, but she returns complaining of fatigue, flank pain, and fever that has persisted despite the resolution of the sinusitis. She has a history of essential hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and gastric reflux. She has been on a stable regimen of lisinopril, simvastatin, and omeprazole. Today, her vital signs reveal: temperature 37.9°C (100.2°F), blood pressure 145/90 mm Hg, regular pulse 75/min, and respirations 16/min. The physical examination is unremarkable. Serum urea and creatinine are elevated. Urinalysis shows leukocyturia, but urine bacterial culture is negative. A urine cytospin stained with Hansel’s solution reveals 3% binucleated cells with eosinophilic, granular cytoplasm. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Acute interstitial nephritis

Fact Query: What adverse effect may be caused by α-receptor antagonists?
Fact Answer: α-receptor antagonists may cause orthostatic hypotension as an adverse effect.

Clinical Question: A 61-year-old man with a history of stage IIIa lung adenocarcinoma that has been treated with wedge resection and chemotherapy presents to the primary care clinic. He is largely asymptomatic, but he demonstrates a persistent microcytic anemia despite iron supplementation. Colonoscopy performed 3 years earlier was unremarkable. His past medical history is significant for diabetes mellitus type II, hypertension, acute lymphoblastic leukemia as a child, and hypercholesterolemia. He currently smokes 1 pack of cigarettes per day, drinks a glass of pinot grigio per day, and currently denies any illicit drug use. His vital signs include: temperature, 36.7°C (98.0°F); blood pressure, 126/74 mm Hg; heart rate, 87/min; and respiratory rate, 17/min. On physical examination, his pulses are bounding, complexion is pale, but breath sounds remain clear. Oxygen saturation was initially 91% on room air, with a new oxygen requirement of 2 L by nasal cannula. Which of the following lab values would suggest anemia of chronic disease as the underlying etiology?
Correct Diagnosis: Decreased serum iron and transferrin, increased ferritin, normal serum transferrin receptor

Fact Query: What adverse effect may be caused by α-receptor antagonists, and what is the specific type of response that occurs?
Fact Answer: α-receptor antagonists may cause reflex tachycardia as an adverse effect.

Clinical Question: A 62-year-old woman presents to her physician with a painless breast mass on her left breast for the past 4 months. She mentions that she noticed the swelling suddenly one day and thought it would resolve by itself. Instead, it has been slowly increasing in size. On physical examination of the breasts, the physician notes a single non-tender, hard, and fixed nodule over left breast. An ultrasonogram of the breast shows a solid mass, and a fine-needle aspiration biopsy confirms the mass to be lobular carcinoma of the breast. When the patient asks about her prognosis, the physician says that the prognosis can be best determined after both grading and staging of the tumor. Based on the current diagnostic information, the physician says that they can only grade, but no stage, the neoplasm. Which of the following facts about the neoplasm is currently available to the physician?
Correct Diagnosis: The tumor cells exhibit marked nuclear atypia.

Fact Query: What is the potential result of a direct Coombs test in patients taking α-methyldopa, and what does the result indicate?
Fact Answer: Patients taking α-methyldopa may have a direct Coombs test (+) hemolysis, which indicates the presence of antibodies on the surface of red blood cells.

Clinical Question: A 67-year-old woman has fallen from the second story level of her home while hanging laundry. She was brought to the emergency department immediately and presented with severe abdominal pain. The patient is anxious, and her hands and feet feel very cold to the touch. There is no evidence of bone fractures, superficial skin wounds, or a foreign body penetration. Her blood pressure is 102/67 mm Hg, respirations are 19/min, pulse is 87/min, and temperature is 36.7°C (98.0°F). Her abdominal exam reveals rigidity and severe tenderness. A Foley catheter and nasogastric tube are inserted. The central venous pressure (CVP) is 5 cm H2O. The medical history is significant for hypertension. Which of the following is best indicated for the evaluation of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Ultrasound

Fact Query: What type of adrenergic agonist is α-methyldopa, and what is its primary site of action?
Fact Answer: α-methyldopa is an α2 adrenergic agonist that primarily affects the CNS.

Clinical Question: A 74-year-old female is brought to the emergency department because of a 2-week history of increasing weakness and chills. She also notes difficulty breathing for the last three days. Eight weeks ago, she underwent left hemicolectomy for adenocarcinoma of the colon. She subsequently developed a severe urinary tract infection, was treated in the intensive care unit for four days, and was discharged from the hospital three weeks ago. She has type 2 diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis with lumbar pain, hypertension, and atrial fibrillation. She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 50 years. She does not drink alcohol and has never used illicit drugs. Current medications include warfarin, metformin, lisinopril, and aspirin. She appears lethargic and has a large conjunctival hemorrhage in her left eye. Her temperature is 39.3°C (102.7°F), pulse is 112/min, respirations are 25/min, and blood pressure is 126/79 mm Hg. Cardiac auscultation reveals a new holosystolic murmur over the apex. Abdominal examination shows mild, diffuse tenderness throughout the upper quadrants and a well-healed 12-cm paramedian scar. There are multiple tender nodules on the palmar surface of her fingertips. Funduscopic examination shows retinal hemorrhages with pale centers. An ECG shows atrial fibrillation and right bundle branch block. Which of the following is the most likely underlying etiology of this patient's condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Enterococcus faecalis infection

Fact Query: What type of adrenergic agonist is α-methyldopa, and where does it primarily exert its effects?
Fact Answer: α-methyldopa is an α2 adrenergic agonist that primarily exerts its effects on the CNS.

Clinical Question: A 61-year-old woman presents to her physician with a persistent cough. She has been unable to control her cough and also is finding it increasingly difficult to breathe. The cough has been persistent for about 2 months now, but 2 weeks ago she started noticing streaks of blood in the sputum regularly after coughing. Over the course of 4 months, she has also observed an unusual loss of 10 kg (22 lb) in her weight. She has an unchanged appetite and remains fairly active, which makes her suspicious as to the cause of her weight loss. Another troublesome concern for her is that on a couple occasions over the past few weeks, she has observed herself drenched in sweat when she wakes up in the morning. Other than having a 35 pack-year smoking history, her medical history is insignificant. She is sent for a chest X-ray which shows a central nodule of about 13 mm located in the hilar region. Which of the following would be the next best step in the management of this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Mediastinoscopy

Fact Query: What is the product of the conversion of α-ketoglutarate, and what is the name of the enzyme that catalyzes this reaction?
Fact Answer: The product of the conversion of α-ketoglutarate is succinyl CoA, and the enzyme that catalyzes this reaction is α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase.

Clinical Question: A 2-year-old boy is brought to the emergency department by his parents after they found him to be lethargic and febrile. His current symptoms started 1 week ago and initially consisted of a sore throat and a runny nose. He subsequently developed a fever and productive cough that has become worse over time. Notably, this patient has previously presented with pneumonia and gastroenteritis 8 times since he was born. On presentation, the patient's temperature is 103°F (39.4°C), blood pressure is 90/50 mmHg, pulse is 152/min, and respirations are 38/min. Based on clinical suspicion, an antibody panel is obtained and the results show low levels of IgG and IgA relative to the level of IgM. The expression of which of the following genes is most likely abnormal in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: CD40L

Fact Query: What is the name of the enzyme that converts α-ketoglutarate to succinyl CoA, and what is the product of this reaction?
Fact Answer: The enzyme that converts α-ketoglutarate to succinyl CoA is called α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, and the product of this reaction is succinyl CoA.

Clinical Question: A 71-year-old man comes to the emergency department because of a 2-month history of severe muscle cramps and back pain. He says that he is homeless and has not visited a physician in the past 20 years. He is 183 cm (6 ft 0 in) tall and weighs 62 kg (137 lb); BMI is 18.5 kg/m2. His blood pressure is 154/88 mm Hg. Physical examination shows pallor, multiple cutaneous excoriations, and decreased sensation over the lower extremities. Serum studies show:
Calcium 7.2 mg/dL
Phosphorus 5.1 mg/dL
Glucose 221 mg/dL
Creatinine 4.5 mg/dL
An x-ray of the spine shows alternating sclerotic and radiolucent bands in the lumbar and thoracic vertebral bodies. Which of the following is the most likely explanation for these findings?"
Correct Diagnosis: Secondary hyperparathyroidism

Fact Query: What are the molecules that negatively regulate α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, and how do they regulate it?
Fact Answer: The molecules that negatively regulate α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase are succinyl-CoA, ATP, and NADH. They regulate the enzyme through negative feedback.

Clinical Question: A 23-year-old woman presents to her primary care physician for knee pain. The patient states it started yesterday and has been steadily worsening. She recently joined a volleyball team to try to get into shape as she was informed that weight loss would be beneficial for her at her last physical exam. She states that she has been repetitively pivoting and twisting on her knee while playing volleyball. The patient has a past medical history of polycystic ovarian syndrome and is currently taking oral contraceptive pills. Her temperature is 98.5°F (36.9°C), blood pressure is 137/88 mmHg, pulse is 90/min, respirations are 12/min, and oxygen saturation is 98% on room air. Physical exam reveals an obese woman with facial hair. Physical exam is notable for tenderness that is mediated with palpation over the medial aspect of the tibia just inferior to the patella. Her BMI is 37 kg/m^2. The rest of the exam of the lower extremity is not remarkable. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Pes anserine bursitis

Fact Query: In what condition is α-fetoprotein (AFP) transiently elevated?
Fact Answer: α-fetoprotein (AFP) is transiently elevated during pregnancy.

Clinical Question: A 47-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 6-week history of fatigue and low-grade fever. She has no history of serious illness except for a bicuspid aortic valve, diagnosed 10 years ago. She does not use illicit drugs. Her temperature is 37.7°C (99.9°F). Physical examination shows petechiae under the fingernails and multiple tender, red nodules on the fingers. A new grade 2/6 diastolic murmur is heard at the right second intercostal space. Which of the following is the most likely causal organism?
Correct Diagnosis: Streptococcus sanguinis

Fact Query: What are the conditions in which α-fetoprotein (AFP) is a serum tumor marker elevated, and what is the mnemonic to remember them?
Fact Answer: The conditions in which α-fetoprotein (AFP) is a serum tumor marker elevated are hepatocellular carcinoma, endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor, mixed germ cell tumor, ataxia-telangiectasia, and neural tube defects. The mnemonic to remember them is "HE-MAN is the alpha male".

Clinical Question: A 22-year-old man is rushed to the emergency department after a motor vehicle accident. The patient states that he feels weakness and numbness in both of his legs. He also reports pain in his lower back. His airway, breathing, and circulation is intact, and he is conversational. Neurologic exam is significant for bilateral lower extremity flaccid paralysis and impaired pain and temperature sensation up to T10-T11 with normal vibration sense. A computerized tomography scan of the spine is performed which shows a vertebral burst fracture of the vertebral body at the level of T11. Which of the following findings is most likely present in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Preserved fine touch

Fact Query: What are the conditions in which α-fetoprotein (AFP) is a serum tumor marker elevated, and is there a mnemonic to remember them?
Fact Answer: α-fetoprotein (AFP) is a serum tumor marker elevated in hepatocellular carcinoma, endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor, mixed germ cell tumor, ataxia-telangiectasia, and neural tube defects. There is a mnemonic to remember them, which is "HE-MAN is the alpha male".

Clinical Question: A 58-year-old obese woman presents with painless postmenopausal bleeding for the past 5 days. A recent endometrial biopsy confirmed endometrial cancer, and the patient is scheduled for total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Past medical history is significant for stress incontinence and diabetes mellitus type 2. Menarche was at age 11 and menopause was at age 55. The patient has 4 healthy children from uncomplicated pregnancies, who were all formula fed. Current medications are topical estrogen and metformin. Family history is significant for breast cancer in her grandmother at age 80. Which of the following aspects of this patient’s history is associated with a decreased risk of breast cancer?
Correct Diagnosis: Multiple pregnancies

Fact Query: What conditions can cause an elevation in serum α-fetoprotein (AFP) levels, and is there a mnemonic to remember them?
Fact Answer: An elevation in serum α-fetoprotein (AFP) levels can be caused by hepatocellular carcinoma, endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor, mixed germ cell tumor, ataxia-telangiectasia, and neural tube defects. There is a mnemonic to remember them, which is "HE-MAN is the alpha male".

Clinical Question: A middle-aged homeless man is found lying unresponsive on the streets by the police and is rushed to the emergency department. His vital signs include: blood pressure 110/80 mm Hg, pulse rate 100/min, and respirations 10/min and shallow. On physical examination, his extremities are cold and clammy. Pupils are constricted and non-reactive. His blood glucose is 55 mg/dL. IV access is established immediately with the administration of dextrose and naloxone. In half an hour, the patient is fully conscious, alert and responsive. He denies any medical illnesses, hospitalizations, or surgeries in the past. Physical examination reveals injection track marks along both arms. He admits to the use of cocaine and heroin. He smokes cigarettes and consumes alcohol. His vital signs are now stable. A urine sample is sent for toxicology screening. Which of the following was the most likely cause of this patient’s respiratory depression?
Correct Diagnosis: Opioid intoxication

Fact Query: What is the origin of α-fetoprotein (AFP) and where is it normally produced?
Fact Answer: α-fetoprotein (AFP) is a protein that is normally made by the fetus.

Clinical Question: A 47-year-old female with a history of hypertension presents to your outpatient clinic for numbness, tingling in her right hand that has been slowly worsening over the last several months. She has tried using a splint but receives minimal relief. She is an analyst for a large consulting firm and spends most of her workday in front of a computer. Upon examination, you noticed that the patient has a prominent jaw and her hands appear disproportionately large. Her temperature is 99 deg F (37.2 deg C), blood pressure is 154/72 mmHg, pulse is 87/min, respirations are 12/min. A fasting basic metabolic panel shows: Na: 138 mEq/L, K: 4.1 mEq/L, Cl: 103 mEq/L, CO2: 24 mEq/L, BUN: 12 mg/dL, Cr: 0.8 mg/dL, Glucose: 163 mg/dL. Which of the following tests would be most helpful in identifying the underlying diagnosis?
Correct Diagnosis: Measurement of insulin-like growth factor 1 alone and growth hormone levels after oral glucose

Fact Query: What is the use of α antagonists (such as phentolamine) in medicine and what condition can they be used to treat?
Fact Answer: α antagonists (such as phentolamine) can be used in medicine to treat conditions such as cocaine toxicity.

Clinical Question: A 17-year-old woman is rushed into the emergency department by her father who found her collapsed in her bedroom 15 minutes before the ambulance's arrival. There was an empty bottle of clomipramine in her bedroom which her mother takes for her depression. Vital signs include the following: respiratory rate 8/min, pulse 130/min, and blood pressure 100/60 mm Hg. On physical examination, the patient is unresponsive to vocal and tactile stimuli. Oral mucosa and tongue are dry, and the bladder is palpable. A bedside electrocardiogram (ECG) shows widening of the QRS complexes. Which of the following would be the best course of treatment in this patient?
Correct Diagnosis: Sodium bicarbonate

Fact Query: What is the substance that gives urine its yellow color and what is its source?
Fact Answer: The substance that gives urine its yellow color is urobilin, which is the ~2% of urobilinogen that is excreted in urine.

Clinical Question: A 3-year-old girl is brought to the physician by her 30-year-old mother, who reports that her daughter has been passing multiple foul-smelling, bulky stools with flatulence every day for the last 6 months. The girl was born in Guatemala, and soon after her birth, her parents moved to the United States so that they could access better healthcare. During pregnancy, the mother had little prenatal care, but labor and delivery were uneventful. However, the newborn had significant abdominal distention immediately at birth that increased when she ate or yawned. She failed to pass stool in the first 24 hours of life and had greenish-black vomitus. The parents report similar symptoms in other family members. After diagnosis, the girl underwent a procedure that alleviated her symptoms; however, there was no remission. Her abdominal X-ray (see the first image) and barium contrast enema (second image) from when she was born is shown. Her blood pressure is 100/68 mm Hg, heart rate is 96/min, respiratory rate is 19/min, and temperature is 36.7°C (98.0°F). The girl is in the 10th percentile for height and weight. On physical exam, she has periumbilical and midepigastric tenderness to palpation without rebound tenderness or guarding. There is a slight genu varum deformity and bony tenderness noted in her legs. She has foul-smelling flatulation 2–3 times during the visit. Her rectosphincteric reflex is intact. She has decreased fecal elastase and a negative D-xylose test. Which of the following is the most appropriate long-term treatment for her condition?
Correct Diagnosis: Enzyme-replacement therapy

Fact Query: What is the process by which ~18% of urobilinogen is returned to the liver and what is this circulation called?
Fact Answer: ~18% of urobilinogen is returned to the liver via a process called enterohepatic circulation.

Clinical Question: A 60-year-old, multiparous, woman comes to the physician because of urinary leakage for the past 4 months. She involuntarily loses a small amount of urine after experiencing a sudden, painful sensation in the bladder. She wakes up at night several times to urinate, and she sometimes cannot make it to the bathroom in time. She has diabetes mellitus type 2 controlled with insulin and a history of pelvic organ prolapse, for which she underwent surgical treatment 5 years ago. Menopause was 11 years ago. She drinks 4-5 cups of coffee daily. Pelvic examination shows no abnormalities, and a Q-tip test is negative. Ultrasound of the bladder shows a normal postvoid residual urine. Which of the following is the underlying cause of this patient's urinary incontinence?
Correct Diagnosis: Increased detrusor muscle activity

Fact Query: What causes ~10-20% of cholesterol gallstones to be radiopaque and what are these gallstones composed of?
Fact Answer: ~10-20% of cholesterol gallstones are radiopaque due to calcifications, and these gallstones are composed of cholesterol.

Clinical Question: A 35-year-old woman with type 1 diabetes mellitus comes to the emergency department for evaluation of a 1-month history of fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, and a 3.6-kg (8-lb) weight loss. She has also had a cough for the last 2 months. She reports recent loss of pubic hair. The patient immigrated from the Philippines 7 weeks ago. Her mother has systemic lupus erythematosus. She has never smoked and does not drink alcohol. Her only medication is insulin, but she sometimes misses doses. She is 165 cm (5 ft 5 in) tall and weighs 49 kg (108 lb); BMI is 18 kg/m2. She appears lethargic. Her temperature is 38.9°C (102°F), pulse is 58/min, and blood pressure is 90/60 mm Hg. Examination shows decreased sensation to touch and vibration over both feet. The remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. Serum studies show:
Na+ 122 mEq/L
Cl- 100 mEq/L
K+ 5.8 mEq/L
Glucose 172 mg/dL
Albumin 2.8 g/dL
Cortisol 2.5 μg/dL
ACTH 531.2 pg/mL (N=5–27 pg/mL)
CT scan of the abdomen with contrast shows bilateral adrenal enlargement. Which of the following is the most likely underlying mechanism of this patient's symptoms?"
Correct Diagnosis: Infection with acid-fast bacilli

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and what is the "STOP Making New Thrombi" mnemonic used to remember the underlying diseases that may cause it?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a condition that is almost always secondary to another disease. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" mnemonic can be used to remember the underlying diseases that may cause it, which are: Sepsis, Snake bite (rattlesnake), Trauma, *Obstetric complications, Pancreatitis (acute), Malignancy, Nephrotic syndrome, and Transfusion.

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and what is the "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym used for?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a condition that is almost always secondary to another disease. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym is used to remember the underlying diseases that may cause DIC. The acronym stands for: Sepsis, Snake bite (rattlesnake), Trauma, *Obstetric complications, Pancreatitis (acute), Malignancy, Nephrotic syndrome, and Transfusion.

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and what is the "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym used for?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a condition that is almost always secondary to another disease. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym is used to remember the underlying diseases that may cause DIC. These include sepsis, snake bite (rattlesnake), trauma, *obstetric complications, pancreatitis (acute), malignancy, nephrotic syndrome, and transfusion.

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and what is the "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym used for?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a medical condition that is often caused by an underlying disease. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym is used to remember the common underlying diseases that may lead to DIC. These include sepsis, snake bite (rattlesnake), trauma, obstetric complications, pancreatitis (acute), malignancy, nephrotic syndrome, and transfusion.

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and how can the "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym be used to remember the underlying diseases that may cause it?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a medical condition where blood clots form throughout the body, leading to organ damage and bleeding. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym can be used to remember the underlying diseases that may cause DIC, including sepsis, snake bite (rattlesnake), trauma, obstetric complications, pancreatitis (acute), malignancy, nephrotic syndrome, and transfusion.

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and how can the "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym be used to remember the underlying diseases that may lead to it?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a medical condition where blood clots form throughout the body, leading to organ damage and bleeding. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym can be used to remember the underlying diseases that may lead to DIC, including sepsis, snake bite (rattlesnake), trauma, obstetric complications, pancreatitis (acute), malignancy, nephrotic syndrome, and transfusion.

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and how can the "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym be used to remember the underlying diseases that may lead to it?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a medical condition characterized by abnormal clotting and bleeding. It is almost always secondary to another underlying disease. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym can be used to remember the underlying diseases that may lead to DIC, including sepsis, snake bite (rattlesnake), trauma, obstetric complications, pancreatitis (acute), malignancy, nephrotic syndrome, and transfusion.

Fact Query: What is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and how can the "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym be used to remember the underlying diseases that may lead to it?
Fact Answer: Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is a medical condition where blood clots form throughout the body, leading to organ damage and bleeding. It is almost always secondary to another underlying disease. The "STOP Making New Thrombi" acronym can be used to remember the underlying diseases that may lead to DIC, including sepsis, snake bite (rattlesnake), trauma, obstetric complications, pancreatitis (acute), malignancy, nephrotic syndrome, and transfusion.

Fact Query: What is the most common cause of C-MOPS and what are some symptoms associated with it?
Fact Answer: Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of C-MOPS, which stands for conjunctivitis (redness and discharge), meningitis (fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness), otitis media (ear pain), pneumonia (fever, cough, chills), and sinusitis (nasal discharge, sinus tenderness).

Fact Query: What is C-MOPS and what is the most common cause of it? What are some symptoms associated with it?
Fact Answer: C-MOPS stands for conjunctivitis, meningitis, otitis media, pneumonia, and sinusitis. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of C-MOPS. Symptoms associated with C-MOPS include redness and discharge in the eyes, fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness, ear pain, cough, nasal discharge, and sinus tenderness.

Fact Query: What is the most common cause of C-MOPS and what are the associated symptoms?
Fact Answer: The most common cause of C-MOPS is Streptococcus pneumoniae. The symptoms associated with C-MOPS include redness and discharge in the eyes, fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness, ear pain, cough, nasal discharge, and sinus tenderness.

Fact Query: What is the most common cause of C-MOPS and what are the associated symptoms?
Fact Answer: The most common cause of C-MOPS is Streptococcus pneumoniae. The symptoms associated with C-MOPS include redness and discharge in the eyes (conjunctivitis), fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness (meningitis), ear pain (otitis media), cough, fever, chills (pneumonia), nasal discharge, and sinus tenderness (sinusitis).

Fact Query: What is the most common cause of C-MOPS and what are some of the symptoms associated with it?
Fact Answer: The most common cause of C-MOPS is Streptococcus pneumoniae. Some of the symptoms associated with C-MOPS include conjunctivitis (redness and discharge in the eyes), meningitis (fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness), otitis media (ear pain), pneumonia (fever, cough, chills), and sinusitis (nasal discharge, sinus tenderness).

Fact Query: What is the most common cause of C-MOPS and what are some of the associated symptoms?
Fact Answer: The most common cause of C-MOPS is Streptococcus pneumoniae. Some of the associated symptoms include conjunctivitis (redness and discharge in the eyes), meningitis (fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness), otitis media (ear pain), pneumonia (fever, cough, chills), and sinusitis (nasal discharge, sinus tenderness).

Fact Query: What molecule may be generated via the "VOMIT" pathway and what are the substrates involved in this pathway?
Fact Answer: Propionyl-CoA may be generated via the "VOMIT" pathway. The substrates involved in this pathway are V: valine, O: odd-carbon fatty acids, M: methionine, I: isoleucine, and T: threonine.

Fact Query: What molecule can be produced through the "VOMIT" pathway and what are the specific building blocks involved in this process?
Fact Answer: The "VOMIT" pathway can generate Propionyl-CoA. The specific building blocks involved in this pathway are valine, odd-carbon fatty acids, methionine, isoleucine, and threonine.

Fact Query: What is the "VOMIT" pathway and what molecule can it produce? Also, what are the specific amino acid building blocks involved in this pathway?
Fact Answer: The "VOMIT" pathway is a metabolic pathway that can produce Propionyl-CoA. The specific amino acid building blocks involved in this pathway are valine, odd-carbon fatty acids, methionine, isoleucine, and threonine.

Fact Query: What is the product of the "VOMIT" pathway and what are the specific amino acid components involved in this pathway?
Fact Answer: The "VOMIT" pathway produces Propionyl-CoA and the specific amino acid components involved in this pathway are valine, odd-carbon fatty acids, methionine, isoleucine, and threonine.

Fact Query: What molecule can be produced through the "VOMIT" pathway and what are the specific amino acids involved in this pathway?
Fact Answer: The "VOMIT" pathway can produce Propionyl-CoA and the specific amino acids involved in this pathway are valine, odd-carbon fatty acids, methionine, isoleucine, and threonine.

Fact Query: What is the end product of the "VOMIT" pathway and what are the specific amino acids that contribute to this pathway?
Fact Answer: The end product of the "VOMIT" pathway is Propionyl-CoA, and the specific amino acids that contribute to this pathway are valine, odd-carbon fatty acids, methionine, isoleucine, and threonine.

Fact Query: What are the common symptoms of multiple sclerosis, and what is the mnemonic used to remember some of these symptoms?
Fact Answer: The common symptoms of multiple sclerosis include fatigue, and it may also present with (mnemonic = SIIIN)   S: Scanning speech I: Intention tremor I: Incontinence   I: INO N: Nystagmus.

Fact Query: What are the symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis, and what is the mnemonic used to help remember some of these symptoms?
Fact Answer: The symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis include fatigue, and it may also present with (mnemonic = SIIIN)   S: Scanning speech I: Intention tremor I: Incontinence   I: INO N: Nystagmus.

Fact Query: What are some of the symptoms that can be associated with multiple sclerosis, and is there a mnemonic that can be used to remember some of these symptoms?
Fact Answer: Some of the symptoms that can be associated with multiple sclerosis include fatigue, and there is a mnemonic that can be used to remember some of these symptoms, which is SIIIN: S for Scanning speech, I for Intention tremor, another I for Incontinence, I for INO (internuclear ophthalmoplegia), and N for Nystagmus.

Fact Query: What are some of the symptoms that can be associated with multiple sclerosis, and is there a mnemonic that can be used to remember some of these symptoms?
Fact Answer: Multiple sclerosis can present with fatigue, as well as other symptoms such as Scanning speech, Intention tremor, Incontinence, INO (internuclear ophthalmoplegia), and Nystagmus, which can be remembered using the mnemonic SIIIN.

Fact Query: What are some of the symptoms that can be associated with multiple sclerosis, and is there a mnemonic that can be used to remember these symptoms?
Fact Answer: Multiple sclerosis can be associated with fatigue, as well as other symptoms such as Scanning speech, Intention tremor, Incontinence, INO (internuclear ophthalmoplegia), and Nystagmus. To remember these symptoms, a mnemonic can be used, which is SIIIN.

Fact Query: What are some of the symptoms that can be associated with multiple sclerosis, and is there a mnemonic that can be used to remember them?
Fact Answer: Multiple sclerosis can present with fatigue, as well as other symptoms such as Scanning speech, Intention tremor, Incontinence, INO (internuclear ophthalmoplegia), and Nystagmus. To remember these symptoms, a mnemonic called SIIIN can be used.

Fact Query: What is the mnemonic caNNOT used for, and what does it stand for?
Fact Answer: The mnemonic caNNOT is used to remember the toxicities associated with aminoglycoside antibiotics. It stands for Nephrotoxicity, Neuromuscular blockade, Ototoxicity, and Teratogen (specifically, deafness in neonates).

Fact Query: What is the meaning of the mnemonic caNNOT, and which type of toxicities does it help to remember?
Fact Answer: The mnemonic caNNOT is used to remember the toxicities associated with aminoglycoside antibiotics. It stands for Nephrotoxicity, Neuromuscular blockade, Ototoxicity, and Teratogen (specifically, deafness in neonates).

Fact Query: What is the significance of the mnemonic caNNOT, and how does it relate to aminoglycoside antibiotics?
Fact Answer: The mnemonic caNNOT is used to remember the toxicities associated with aminoglycoside antibiotics. Specifically, it stands for Nephrotoxicity, Neuromuscular blockade, Ototoxicity, and Teratogen (specifically, deafness in neonates). By using this mnemonic, healthcare professionals can better remember and identify the potential toxicities associated with aminoglycoside use.

Fact Query: What are the toxicities associated with aminoglycoside antibiotics, and how can they be remembered using the mnemonic caNNOT?
Fact Answer: Aminoglycoside antibiotics are associated with several toxicities, including Nephrotoxicity, Neuromuscular blockade, Ototoxicity, and Teratogen (specifically, deafness in neonates). These toxicities can be remembered using the mnemonic caNNOT, which is a helpful tool for healthcare professionals to identify and monitor potential side effects of aminoglycoside use.

Fact Query: What is the mnemonic caNNOT, and how is it used to remember the toxicities associated with aminoglycoside antibiotics?
Fact Answer: The mnemonic caNNOT is a tool used to remember the toxicities associated with aminoglycoside antibiotics, including Nephrotoxicity, Neuromuscular blockade, Ototoxicity, and Teratogen (specifically, deafness in neonates). Healthcare professionals use this mnemonic to help identify and monitor potential side effects of aminoglycoside use.

Fact Query: What is the GNATS mnemonic used for, and which drugs can be remembered using this tool?
Fact Answer: The GNATS mnemonic is a tool used to remember a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics. The drugs that can be remembered using this mnemonic include Gentamicin, Neomycin, Amikacin, Tobramycin, and Streptomycin. Healthcare professionals use this mnemonic to help identify and monitor the use of aminoglycoside antibiotics in patients.

Fact Query: What is the GNATS mnemonic, and which drugs can be remembered using this tool?
Fact Answer: The GNATS mnemonic is a tool used to remember a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics. The drugs that can be remembered using this mnemonic include Gentamicin, Neomycin, Amikacin, Tobramycin, and Streptomycin. Healthcare professionals use this mnemonic to help identify and monitor the use of aminoglycoside antibiotics in patients.

Fact Query: What is the significance of the GNATS mnemonic, and which drugs does it help to remember?
Fact Answer: The GNATS mnemonic is a useful tool for remembering a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics. The drugs that can be remembered using this mnemonic include Gentamicin, Neomycin, Amikacin, Tobramycin, and Streptomycin. This tool is often used by healthcare professionals to help identify and monitor the use of aminoglycoside antibiotics in patients.

Fact Query: What is the GNATS mnemonic used for, and which drugs are associated with it?
Fact Answer: The GNATS mnemonic is a tool used to remember a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics. The drugs that are associated with this mnemonic include Gentamicin, Neomycin, Amikacin, Tobramycin, and Streptomycin. Healthcare professionals use this mnemonic to help identify and monitor the use of aminoglycoside antibiotics in patients.

Fact Query: What is the GNATS mnemonic and how is it used in the medical field?
Fact Answer: The GNATS mnemonic is a tool used to remember a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics, including Gentamicin, Neomycin, Amikacin, Tobramycin, and Streptomycin. In the medical field, healthcare professionals use this mnemonic to help identify and monitor the use of aminoglycoside antibiotics in patients. By remembering the drugs associated with GNATS, medical professionals can ensure that patients are receiving the appropriate treatment and avoid any potential adverse effects.

Fact Query: What is the significance of the GNATS mnemonic in the medical field, and which drugs does it help healthcare professionals remember?
Fact Answer: The GNATS mnemonic is a tool used in the medical field to remember a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics, which include Gentamicin, Neomycin, Amikacin, Tobramycin, and Streptomycin. Healthcare professionals use this mnemonic to help identify and monitor the use of aminoglycoside antibiotics in patients, ensuring that they receive the appropriate treatment and avoid any potential adverse effects.

Fact Query: What is the cause of cystinuria and what are the specific amino acids that are not reabsorbed due to a defect in renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters?
Fact Answer: Cystinuria is caused by a defect in renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters, which prevents the reabsorption of cystine, ornithine, lysine, and arginine. These specific amino acids are not properly reabsorbed, leading to their accumulation in the urine and potentially causing health issues for the individual affected by cystinuria.

Fact Query: What is cystinuria and what causes it? Additionally, which amino acids are not properly reabsorbed due to this condition and what are the potential consequences of their accumulation in the urine?
Fact Answer: Cystinuria is a genetic disorder that is caused by a defect in renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters, which prevents the proper reabsorption of cystine, ornithine, lysine, and arginine. If left untreated, the accumulation of these amino acids in the urine can form kidney stones, which can cause pain, discomfort, and potential damage to the kidneys.

Fact Query: What is the medical condition known as cystinuria and what is its primary cause? Additionally, which specific amino acids are not properly reabsorbed due to this condition and what are the potential consequences of their accumulation in the urine?
Fact Answer: Cystinuria is a genetic disorder that is primarily caused by a defect in renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters, which leads to the improper reabsorption of certain amino acids, including cystine, ornithine, lysine, and arginine. The accumulation of these amino acids in the urine can lead to the formation of kidney stones, which can cause pain and damage to the kidneys if left untreated.

Fact Query: What is the name of the medical condition that occurs due to a defect in renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters, leading to the failure of proper reabsorption of certain amino acids? Which specific amino acids are affected by this condition and what are the potential complications that can arise due to their accumulation in the urine?
Fact Answer: The medical condition is known as cystinuria, which is caused by a defect in renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters, leading to the improper reabsorption of cystine, ornithine, lysine, and arginine. The accumulation of these amino acids in the urine can lead to the formation of kidney stones, which can cause pain and damage to the kidneys if left untreated.

Fact Query: Can you explain the medical condition known as cystinuria and what causes it? Which specific amino acids are not properly reabsorbed due to this condition and what are the potential consequences of their accumulation in the urine?
Fact Answer: Cystinuria is a genetic disorder that is caused by a defect in renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters, which results in the improper reabsorption of certain amino acids, including cystine, ornithine, lysine, and arginine. The accumulation of these amino acids in the urine can lead to the formation of kidney stones, which can cause pain and damage to the kidneys if left untreated.

Fact Query: What is Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and what are the symptoms associated with it?
Fact Answer: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that is characterized by a combination of symptoms, including Wilms tumor, macroglossia (enlarged tongue), muscular hemihypertrophy (or hyperplasia), and organomegaly (enlarged organs). These symptoms can vary in severity and may present differently in each individual with the syndrome.

Fact Query: What is the combination of symptoms associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and how is this condition caused?
Fact Answer: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that is characterized by a combination of symptoms, including Wilms tumor, macroglossia (enlarged tongue), muscular hemihypertrophy (or hyperplasia), and organomegaly (enlarged organs). This condition is caused by genetic mutations or abnormalities that affect the regulation of growth and development in the body, particularly in the cells that form the organs and tissues.

Fact Query: What are the symptoms associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and how is it diagnosed and treated?
Fact Answer: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that is characterized by a combination of symptoms, including Wilms tumor, macroglossia (enlarged tongue), muscular hemihypertrophy (or hyperplasia), and organomegaly (enlarged organs). Diagnosis of the condition involves a physical examination, medical history review, and genetic testing. Treatment may involve surgery to remove tumors or reduce the size of an enlarged tongue, as well as ongoing monitoring and management of any associated health issues.

Fact Query: What is Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and what are its common symptoms?
Fact Answer: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects growth and development in the body. It is characterized by a combination of symptoms, including Wilms tumor (a type of kidney cancer), macroglossia (enlarged tongue), muscular hemihypertrophy (or hyperplasia) (enlargement of one side of the body), and organomegaly (enlarged organs). The condition is caused by genetic mutations or abnormalities that affect the regulation of growth in the body.

Fact Query: What are the different symptoms that are associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, and how do they affect the body?
Fact Answer: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that is characterized by a combination of symptoms, including Wilms tumor (a type of kidney cancer), macroglossia (enlarged tongue), muscular hemihypertrophy (or hyperplasia) (enlargement of one side of the body), and organomegaly (enlarged organs). These symptoms can affect various parts of the body and may lead to health complications, such as difficulty eating, breathing, or moving, as well as an increased risk of developing cancer. Treatment for the condition may involve surgery, medication, or ongoing monitoring and management of associated health issues.

Fact Query: What is Zenker diverticulum, and where does it classically arise in the body?
Fact Answer: Zenker diverticulum is a condition in which a pouch or sac develops in the wall of the esophagus, near the junction with the pharynx. It classically arises at Killian's triangle, which is the area between the thyropharyngeal and cricopharyngeal parts of the inferior pharyngeal constrictor muscle. This condition can cause difficulty swallowing, regurgitation of food, and other symptoms, and may require treatment such as surgery or endoscopic procedures to remove the pouch or alleviate symptoms.

Fact Query: What is Zenker diverticulum, and where does it typically form in the body?
Fact Answer: Zenker diverticulum is a condition where a pouch or sac forms in the wall of the esophagus, near the junction with the pharynx. It typically arises at a location called Killian's triangle, which is situated between the thyropharyngeal and cricopharyngeal parts of the inferior pharyngeal constrictor muscle. This condition can cause difficulty swallowing, regurgitation of food, and other symptoms, and may require treatment such as surgery or endoscopic procedures to remove the pouch or alleviate symptoms.

Fact Query: What is the location and structure of Zenker diverticulum?
Fact Answer: Zenker diverticulum is a medical condition characterized by the formation of a pouch or sac in the wall of the esophagus, near the junction with the pharynx. It typically arises at a specific location called Killian's triangle, which is situated between the thyropharyngeal and cricopharyngeal parts of the inferior pharyngeal constrictor muscle. This condition can cause difficulty swallowing, regurgitation of food, and other symptoms, and may require treatment such as surgery or endoscopic procedures to remove the pouch or alleviate symptoms.

Fact Query: What is Zenker diverticulum, and where does it typically form in the body?
Fact Answer: Zenker diverticulum is a medical condition that involves the formation of a pouch or sac in the wall of the esophagus, near the junction with the pharynx. This condition typically arises at a specific location known as Killian's triangle, which is located between the thyropharyngeal and cricopharyngeal parts of the inferior pharyngeal constrictor muscle. Zenker diverticulum can cause difficulty swallowing, regurgitation of food, and other symptoms, and may require treatment such as surgery or endoscopic procedures to remove the pouch or alleviate symptoms.

Fact Query: What is VIPoma, and what are the typical symptoms associated with this condition?
Fact Answer: VIPoma is a rare type of neuroendocrine tumor that can occur in the pancreas or other parts of the body. This condition is characterized by a triad of symptoms that includes watery diarrhea, hypokalemia (low potassium levels in the blood), and achlorhydria (low or absent stomach acid production). These symptoms can be caused by the excess production of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a hormone that regulates various bodily functions. VIPoma can be diagnosed through various imaging and laboratory tests, and treatment may involve surgery, medication, or other interventions depending on the severity and location of the tumor.

Fact Query: What are the main symptoms of VIPoma, and how is this condition characterized?
Fact Answer: VIPoma is a rare type of neuroendocrine tumor that can cause a range of symptoms. However, it is typically characterized by a triad of watery diarrhea, hypokalemia (low potassium levels in the blood), and achlorhydria (low or absent stomach acid production). These symptoms can be caused by the excess production of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a hormone that regulates various bodily functions. VIPoma can be diagnosed through various imaging and laboratory tests, and treatment may involve surgery, medication, or other interventions depending on the severity and location of the tumor.

Fact Query: What is VIPoma, and what are the three main symptoms that characterize this condition?
Fact Answer: VIPoma is a rare type of neuroendocrine tumor that can occur in various parts of the body, including the pancreas. This condition is typically characterized by a triad of symptoms that includes watery diarrhea, hypokalemia (low potassium levels in the blood), and achlorhydria (low or absent stomach acid production). These symptoms can be caused by the excess production of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a hormone that regulates various bodily functions. VIPoma can be diagnosed through various imaging and laboratory tests, and treatment may involve surgery, medication, or other interventions depending on the severity and location of the tumor.

Fact Query: What are the three main symptoms that are associated with VIPoma, and how is this condition characterized?
Fact Answer: VIPoma is a rare type of neuroendocrine tumor that can cause a range of symptoms. However, it is typically characterized by a triad of watery diarrhea, hypokalemia (low potassium levels in the blood), and achlorhydria (low or absent stomach acid production). These symptoms can be caused by the excess production of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a hormone that regulates various bodily functions. VIPoma can be diagnosed through various imaging and laboratory tests, and treatment may involve surgery, medication, or other interventions depending on the severity and location of the tumor.

Fact Query: What is the process by which tyrosine is converted to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), and what enzyme is involved in this process along with its cofactor?
Fact Answer: Tyrosine is an amino acid that can be converted to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) through a biochemical pathway that involves the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, which requires tetrahydrobiopterin as a cofactor. This conversion is an important step in the synthesis of various neurotransmitters and hormones, including dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine. Tyrosine hydroxylase is a key enzyme in the regulation of these signaling molecules, and its activity can be modulated by various factors, including stress, drugs, and disease states.

Fact Query: What is the name of the enzyme that converts tyrosine to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), and what is the role of the cofactor in this reaction?
Fact Answer: The enzyme responsible for converting tyrosine to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) is called tyrosine hydroxylase. This enzyme requires a cofactor called tetrahydrobiopterin in order to function properly. Tetrahydrobiopterin is a type of molecule that helps to transfer electrons during the reaction, which is necessary for the conversion of tyrosine to DOPA. Tyrosine hydroxylase is an important enzyme in the synthesis of various neurotransmitters and hormones, and its activity can be regulated by a variety of factors, including stress, drugs, and disease states.

Fact Query: What is the process by which tyrosine is converted to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), and what are the names of the enzyme and cofactor involved in this reaction?
Fact Answer: Tyrosine is converted to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) through a biochemical pathway that involves the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase and the cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin. Tyrosine hydroxylase is responsible for catalyzing the conversion of tyrosine to DOPA, while tetrahydrobiopterin acts as a cofactor by providing electrons necessary for the reaction to occur. This conversion is an important step in the synthesis of various neurotransmitters and hormones, including dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine. The activity of tyrosine hydroxylase can be regulated by various factors, including stress, drugs, and disease states.

Fact Query: What is the process by which tyrosine is converted to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), and what are the names of the enzyme and cofactor involved in this reaction?
Fact Answer: The process by which tyrosine is converted to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) involves the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase and the cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin. Tyrosine hydroxylase catalyzes the conversion of tyrosine to DOPA, while tetrahydrobiopterin acts as a cofactor by providing electrons necessary for the reaction to occur. This conversion is a crucial step in the synthesis of various neurotransmitters and hormones, including dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine. The activity of tyrosine hydroxylase can be regulated by various factors, including stress, drugs, and disease states.

Fact Query: What are the symptoms of syringomyelia?
Fact Answer: Syringomyelia is a condition that results in a bi-lateral loss of pain and temperature sensation in a "cape-like" distribution. This means that individuals with syringomyelia may experience a loss of sensation in their arms, shoulders, and upper back, while retaining sensation in their lower body. Other symptoms of syringomyelia may include muscle weakness, stiffness, and spasms, as well as bladder and bowel dysfunction. The condition is caused by the formation of a fluid-filled cavity, or syrinx, within the spinal cord, which can compress and damage nerve fibers.

Fact Query: What is the condition known as syringomyelia, and what are its symptoms?
Fact Answer: Syringomyelia is a condition that involves the formation of a fluid-filled cavity, or syrinx, within the spinal cord. This can lead to compression and damage of nerve fibers, resulting in a variety of symptoms. One common symptom of syringomyelia is a bi-lateral loss of pain and temperature sensation in a "cape-like" distribution, affecting the arms, shoulders, and upper back. Other symptoms may include muscle weakness, stiffness, and spasms, as well as bladder and bowel dysfunction. The severity of symptoms can vary depending on the location and size of the syrinx within the spinal cord. Treatment for syringomyelia may involve surgery to drain the syrinx and relieve pressure on the spinal cord, as well as medication to manage pain and other symptoms.

Fact Query: What are the typical symptoms of syringomyelia, and how does this condition affect sensation in the body?
Fact Answer: Syringomyelia is a condition that can cause a range of symptoms, including muscle weakness, stiffness, and spasms, as well as bladder and bowel dysfunction. One of the most common symptoms of syringomyelia is a bi-lateral loss of pain and temperature sensation in a "cape-like" distribution, affecting the arms, shoulders, and upper back. This means that individuals with syringomyelia may experience a loss of sensation in these areas, while retaining sensation in their lower body. The condition is caused by the formation of a fluid-filled cavity, or syrinx, within the spinal cord, which can compress and damage nerve fibers. Treatment for syringomyelia may involve surgery to drain the syrinx and relieve pressure on the spinal cord, as well as medication to manage pain and other symptoms.

Fact Query: What is syringomyelia, and what are the specific sensory symptoms associated with this condition?
Fact Answer: Syringomyelia is a medical condition that involves the development of a fluid-filled cavity, or syrinx, within the spinal cord. This can lead to a range of symptoms, including muscle weakness, stiffness, and spasms, as well as bladder and bowel dysfunction. One of the most common sensory symptoms of syringomyelia is a bi-lateral loss of pain and temperature sensation in a "cape-like" distribution, affecting the arms, shoulders, and upper back. This means that individuals with syringomyelia may experience a loss of sensation in these areas, while retaining sensation in their lower body. The severity of symptoms can vary depending on the location and size of the syrinx within the spinal cord. Treatment for syringomyelia may involve surgery to drain the syrinx and relieve pressure on the spinal cord, as well as medication to manage pain and other symptoms.

Fact Query: What is restrictive lung disease, and what are some potential causes of this condition related to poor muscular effort?
Fact Answer: Restrictive lung disease is a medical condition that involves a reduction in lung volume, which can make it difficult to breathe. This can be caused by a variety of factors, including poor muscular effort. Some potential causes of restrictive lung disease related to poor muscular effort may include conditions such as polio, myasthenia gravis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. These conditions can affect the muscles involved in breathing, leading to a reduction in lung volume and difficulty breathing. Other potential causes of restrictive lung disease may include lung tissue damage, scarring, or inflammation, as well as certain neurological or autoimmune disorders. Treatment for restrictive lung disease may involve medication, oxygen therapy, and pulmonary rehabilitation to help improve lung function and manage symptoms.

Fact Query: What are some potential causes of restrictive lung disease related to poor muscular effort, and can you provide some examples of conditions that may cause this?
Fact Answer: Restrictive lung disease can be caused by a variety of factors, including poor muscular effort. Some potential causes of restrictive lung disease related to poor muscular effort may include conditions such as polio, myasthenia gravis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. These conditions can affect the muscles involved in breathing, leading to a reduction in lung volume and difficulty breathing. Other potential causes of restrictive lung disease may include lung tissue damage, scarring, or inflammation, as well as certain neurological or autoimmune disorders. Treatment for restrictive lung disease may involve medication, oxygen therapy, and pulmonary rehabilitation to help improve lung function and manage symptoms.

Fact Query: What is restrictive lung disease, and how can poor muscular effort contribute to its development? Can you provide some examples of conditions that may cause restrictive lung disease related to poor muscular effort?
Fact Answer: Restrictive lung disease is a medical condition that involves a reduction in lung volume, making it difficult to breathe. Poor muscular effort can contribute to the development of restrictive lung disease by affecting the muscles involved in breathing, leading to a reduction in lung volume and difficulty breathing. Some examples of conditions that may cause restrictive lung disease related to poor muscular effort include polio, myasthenia gravis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. Other potential causes of restrictive lung disease may include lung tissue damage, scarring, or inflammation, as well as certain neurological or autoimmune disorders. Treatment for restrictive lung disease may involve medication, oxygen therapy, and pulmonary rehabilitation to help improve lung function and manage symptoms.

Fact Query: How does poor muscular effort contribute to the development of restrictive lung disease, and what are some examples of conditions that may cause this type of lung disease?
Fact Answer: Poor muscular effort can contribute to the development of restrictive lung disease by affecting the muscles involved in breathing, leading to a reduction in lung volume and difficulty breathing. Some examples of conditions that may cause this type of lung disease include polio, myasthenia gravis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. These conditions can affect the muscles involved in breathing, leading to a reduction in lung volume and difficulty breathing. Other potential causes of restrictive lung disease may include lung tissue damage, scarring, or inflammation, as well as certain neurological or autoimmune disorders. Treatment for restrictive lung disease may involve medication, oxygen therapy, and pulmonary rehabilitation to help improve lung function and manage symptoms.

Fact Query: What is primary syphilis, and how is it characterized?
Fact Answer: Primary syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. It is characterized by the appearance of a painless genital chancre, which is a small, firm, and round sore that typically develops at the site of infection. The chancre can last for several weeks before eventually disappearing, but the infection can still progress to the secondary stage if left untreated. Symptoms of secondary syphilis may include a rash, fever, sore throat, and swollen lymph nodes, among others. Treatment for syphilis typically involves antibiotics, which can help to clear the infection and prevent further complications.

Fact Query: What are the symptoms of primary syphilis, and how is it typically recognized?
Fact Answer: Primary syphilis is typically recognized by the appearance of a painless genital chancre, which is a small, firm, and round sore that develops at the site of infection. This is the hallmark symptom of primary syphilis and can last for several weeks before eventually disappearing. Other symptoms of primary syphilis may include swollen lymph nodes in the groin area, but many people with syphilis may not experience any symptoms at all. It is important to get tested for syphilis if you suspect you may have been exposed, as early detection and treatment can help to prevent the infection from progressing to more serious stages.

Fact Query: What is the defining symptom of primary syphilis, and how is the infection typically identified?
Fact Answer: The defining symptom of primary syphilis is a painless genital chancre, which is a small, firm, and round sore that develops at the site of infection. This is the most common and recognizable symptom of primary syphilis. In addition to the genital chancre, other symptoms of primary syphilis may include swollen lymph nodes in the groin area. However, many people with syphilis may not experience any symptoms at all. If you suspect you may have been exposed to syphilis, it is important to get tested for the infection, as early detection and treatment can help to prevent the infection from progressing to more serious stages.

Fact Query: What is the main symptom that distinguishes primary syphilis, and how is it typically identified?
Fact Answer: The main symptom that distinguishes primary syphilis is the development of a painless genital chancre, which is a small, firm, and round sore that appears at the site of infection. This symptom is characteristic of primary syphilis and is often the first sign of the infection. Other symptoms of primary syphilis may include swollen lymph nodes in the groin area, but many people with syphilis may not experience any symptoms at all. It is important to get tested for syphilis if you suspect you may have been exposed, as early detection and treatment can help to prevent the infection from progressing to more serious stages.

Fact Query: What are parietal cells, where are they located in the stomach, and what do they secrete?
Fact Answer: Parietal cells are a type of cell found in the body of the stomach. They are responsible for secreting hydrochloric acid (HCl) and intrinsic factor, which is necessary for the absorption of vitamin B12. These cells are important for the digestive process, as the HCl they secrete helps to break down food and kill bacteria in the stomach. In addition to HCl and intrinsic factor, parietal cells also secrete a hormone called gastrin, which helps to regulate the production of stomach acid.

Fact Query: What type of cells are found in the body of the stomach, where are they located, and what substances do they secrete?
Fact Answer: The cells found in the body of the stomach are called parietal cells. They are responsible for secreting hydrochloric acid (HCl) and intrinsic factor, which is necessary for the absorption of vitamin B12. These cells are located in the mucosal lining of the stomach and play a crucial role in the digestive process by breaking down food and killing bacteria in the stomach. Additionally, parietal cells also secrete a hormone called gastrin, which helps to regulate the production of stomach acid.

Fact Query: What are parietal cells, where are they found in the stomach, and what substances do they secrete?
Fact Answer: Parietal cells are a type of cell found in the body of the stomach. They are responsible for secreting hydrochloric acid (HCl) and intrinsic factor, which is necessary for the absorption of vitamin B12. These cells are located in the mucosal lining of the stomach and play a crucial role in the digestive process by breaking down food and killing bacteria in the stomach. Additionally, parietal cells also secrete a hormone called gastrin, which helps to regulate the production of stomach acid.

Fact Query: What is normal pressure hydrocephalus and what are the three classic symptoms that it presents with?
Fact Answer: Normal pressure hydrocephalus is a condition that affects the brain and is characterized by an accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid. The classic symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus are urinary incontinence, gait apraxia, and dementia. These symptoms are referred to as a "triad" and are often used to diagnose the condition. It's important to note that not all individuals with normal pressure hydrocephalus will experience all three symptoms, and some may have additional symptoms as well.

Fact Query: What is the classic triad of symptoms associated with normal pressure hydrocephalus?
Fact Answer: The classic triad of symptoms associated with normal pressure hydrocephalus are urinary incontinence, gait apraxia, and dementia. These symptoms are often used to diagnose the condition, but it's important to note that not all individuals with normal pressure hydrocephalus will experience all three symptoms, and some may have additional symptoms as well.

Fact Query: What are the common symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus?
Fact Answer: The common symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus are urinary incontinence, gait apraxia, and dementia. These symptoms often occur together and are referred to as a "triad." However, not all individuals with normal pressure hydrocephalus will experience all three symptoms, and some may have additional symptoms as well.

Fact Query: What is the classic presentation of normal pressure hydrocephalus?
Fact Answer: The classic presentation of normal pressure hydrocephalus is a triad of symptoms that includes urinary incontinence, gait apraxia, and dementia. While not all individuals with the condition will experience all three symptoms, the presence of this triad is often used to diagnose normal pressure hydrocephalus.

Fact Query: What is Miller-Fisher Syndrome and what is it characterized by?
Fact Answer: Miller-Fisher Syndrome is a variant of Guillain-Barré syndrome that is characterized by antibodies directed at GQ1b. This rare disorder affects the nervous system and can cause symptoms such as double vision, difficulty with coordination, and muscle weakness. While it is considered a variant of Guillain-Barré syndrome, Miller-Fisher Syndrome has its own distinct set of symptoms and diagnostic criteria.

Fact Query: What is the relationship between Miller-Fisher Syndrome and Guillain-Barré Syndrome, and what antibody is involved in Miller-Fisher Syndrome?
Fact Answer: Miller-Fisher Syndrome is a variant of Guillain-Barré Syndrome that is characterized by the presence of antibodies directed at GQ1b. While both conditions are related and affect the nervous system, Miller-Fisher Syndrome is a distinct variant with its own set of symptoms and diagnostic criteria. The presence of GQ1b antibodies is a key feature that distinguishes Miller-Fisher Syndrome from other forms of Guillain-Barré Syndrome.

Fact Query: What are the symptoms associated with Miller Fisher Syndrome, and how does it relate to Guillain-Barré Syndrome?
Fact Answer: Miller Fisher Syndrome is a rare variant of Guillain-Barré Syndrome that is characterized by a triad of symptoms: ophthalmoplegia (paralysis of the eye muscles), cerebellar ataxia (difficulty with coordination and balance), and areflexia (absent reflexes). While it shares some similarities with Guillain-Barré Syndrome, Miller Fisher Syndrome is a distinct variant with its own set of symptoms and diagnostic criteria. The presence of the triad of symptoms is often used to diagnose Miller Fisher Syndrome.

Fact Query: What are the clinical features of Miller Fisher Syndrome, and how does it differ from Guillain-Barré Syndrome?
Fact Answer: Miller Fisher Syndrome is a rare variant of Guillain-Barré Syndrome that is characterized by a triad of clinical features: ophthalmoplegia (paralysis of the eye muscles), cerebellar ataxia (difficulty with coordination and balance), and areflexia (absent reflexes). While it shares some similarities with Guillain-Barré Syndrome, Miller Fisher Syndrome is a distinct variant with its own set of symptoms and diagnostic criteria. The presence of the triad of clinical features is often used to diagnose Miller Fisher Syndrome.

Fact Query: What is Miller Fisher Syndrome, and what are the major symptoms associated with it? How is it related to Guillain-Barré Syndrome?
Fact Answer: Miller Fisher Syndrome is a rare neurological disorder that is considered a variant of Guillain-Barré Syndrome. It is characterized by a triad of symptoms: ophthalmoplegia (paralysis of the eye muscles), cerebellar ataxia (difficulty with coordination and balance), and areflexia (absent reflexes). Unlike Guillain-Barré Syndrome, which typically starts in the legs and progresses upward, Miller Fisher Syndrome often begins with eye movement problems and progresses downward. Additionally, Miller Fisher Syndrome is often associated with antibodies to a specific type of ganglioside, a type of molecule found in nerve cells.

Fact Query: Can you describe Miller Fisher Syndrome, including its relationship to Guillain-Barré Syndrome and the major symptoms associated with it?
Fact Answer: Miller Fisher Syndrome is a rare variant of Guillain-Barré Syndrome that is characterized by a triad of symptoms: ophthalmoplegia (paralysis of the eye muscles), cerebellar ataxia (difficulty with coordination and balance), and areflexia (absent reflexes). While it is related to Guillain-Barré Syndrome, Miller Fisher Syndrome is distinct in its symptom presentation and often begins with eye movement problems before progressing downward. It is also associated with antibodies to a specific type of ganglioside, a molecule found in nerve cells.

Fact Query: What is Midodrine, and what medical conditions is it used to treat as an α1 agonist?
Fact Answer: Midodrine is a medication that acts as an α1 agonist, and it is primarily indicated for the treatment of postural hypotension and autonomic insufficiency. By stimulating α1 receptors, Midodrine causes vasoconstriction, which can help to increase blood pressure and improve symptoms associated with these conditions.

Fact Query: What is the medication Midodrine, and what medical conditions is it used to treat as an α1 agonist?
Fact Answer: Midodrine is a medication that acts as an α1 agonist, which means it stimulates α1 receptors in the body. It is primarily indicated for the treatment of postural hypotension and autonomic insufficiency, two conditions that can result in low blood pressure and associated symptoms. By causing vasoconstriction, Midodrine can help to increase blood pressure and improve symptoms in patients with these conditions.

Fact Query: What is Midodrine and what medical conditions is it indicated for as an α1 agonist?
Fact Answer: Midodrine is a medication that acts as an α1 agonist and is primarily indicated for the treatment of postural hypotension and autonomic insufficiency. These conditions can result in low blood pressure and associated symptoms, and by stimulating α1 receptors, Midodrine can help to increase blood pressure and improve symptoms in patients with these conditions.
